>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
A ROUT ON WALL STREET.
STOCKS PLUNGE AMID FEARS OF
CHINA'S ECONOMY IN DECLINE DAN
THE FALLING PRICE OF OIL.
THEN, LEADING THE WAY-- TWO
WOMEN MAKE HISTORY AS THE FIRST
FEMALE SOLDIERS TO COMPLETE THE
ARMY'S ELITE RANGER PROGRAM.
PLUS, RETHINKING COLLEGE.
PLUS, RETHINKING COLLEGE. HOW
ARIZONA STATE BECAME THE
HOW ARIZONA STATE BECAME THE
NATION'S LARGEST UNIVERSITY BY
OPENING ITS DOORS TO LOW-INCOME
OPENING ITS DOORS TO
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS.
STUDENTS. >> IT'S
TIME TO DEVELOP A NEW
>> IT'S TIME TO DEVELOP A NEW
KIND OF AMERICAN UNIVERSITY.
TALENT IS NOT A FUNCTION OF YOUR
TALENT IS NOT A FUNCTION
OF YOUR PARENT'S INCOME.
PARENT'S INCOME. TALENT
IS A FUNCTION OF YOUR
TALENT IS A FUNCTION OF YOUR
DRIVE, YOUR ABILITY AS AN
DRIVE, YOUR ABILITY
AS AN INDIVIDUAL.
INDIVIDUAL. WE'VE GONE
OUT AND FOUND THAT
WE'VE GONE OUT AND FOUND
THAT TALENT WHEREVER IT IS.
TALENT WHEREVER IT IS. >>
Woodruff: AND DOES DONALD
>> Woodruff: AND DOES DONALD
TRUMP HAVE STAYING POWER, CAN
HILLARY CLINTON SURVIVE HER
EMAIL TROUBLES AND A FORMER
PRESIDENT'S CANDID TALK OF
PRESIDENT'S CANDID
TALK OF CANCER.
CANCER. WE'LL GET THE
ANALYSIS OF MARK
WE'LL GET THE ANALYSIS OF MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON. ALL
THAT AND MORE ON TONIGHT'S
ALL THAT AND MORE ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A GLOBAL FINANCIAL
MARKET SELL-OFF OVERWHELMED WALL
MARKET SELL-OFF OVERWHELMED
WALL STREET TODAY.
STREET TODAY. INVESTORS
RACED FOR THE EXITS AS
INVESTORS RACED FOR THE EXITS AS
CHINESE STOCKS CRASHED AGAIN,
AND OIL TRADED BELOW $40 A
AND OIL TRADED BELOW $40
A BARREL AT ONE POINT.
BARREL AT ONE POINT. WHEN
THE CLOSING BELL FINALLY
WHEN THE CLOSING BELL FINALLY
SOUNDED, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIALS HAD PLUMMETED 530
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,460.
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,460. THE
NASDAQ PLUNGED 170 POINTS
THE NASDAQ PLUNGED 170 POINTS
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED 65.
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED 65. ALL
THREE INDEXES WERE DOWN MORE
ALL THREE INDEXES WERE DOWN
MORE THAN 3% ON THE DAY.
THAN 3% ON THE DAY. AND
FOR THE WEEK: THE DOW AND
AND FOR THE WEEK: THE DOW AND
THE S&P LOST NEARLY 6%, WHILE
THE NASDAQ FELL ALMOST 7%.
WE'LL LOOK AT WHAT'S DRIVING
THIS BIG DROP IN JUST A FEW
THIS BIG DROP IN
JUST A FEW MINUTES.
MINUTES. IN IRAQ, A
U.S. AIR STRIKE HAS
IN IRAQ, A U.S. AIR STRIKE HAS
KILLED THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP'S
KILLED THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP'S SECOND-IN-COMMAND.
SECOND-IN-COMMAND. THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT FADHIL
AHMAD AL-HAYALI DIED TUESDAY,
AHMAD AL-HAYALI DIED
TUESDAY, NORTH OF MOSUL.
NORTH OF MOSUL. A
SPOKESMAN CALLED HIM "A
A SPOKESMAN CALLED HIM "A
PRIMARY COORDINATOR FOR MOVING
LARGE AMOUNTS OF WEAPONS,
EXPLOSIVES, VEHICLES, AND PEOPLE
EXPLOSIVES, VEHICLES, AND
PEOPLE BETWEEN IRAQ AND SYRIA."
BETWEEN IRAQ AND SYRIA." AND
THE U.S. MILITARY SAYS ISIS
AND THE U.S. MILITARY SAYS ISIS
MORTAR FRAGMENTS IN NORTHERN
IRAQ SHOW TRACES OF MUSTARD GAS.
IRAQ SHOW TRACES OF MUSTARD
GAS. THEY WERE FIRED AT KURDISH
THEY WERE FIRED AT KURDISH
FIGHTERS THIS MONTH.
FIGHTERS THIS MONTH. NTH
KOROREA WENT ON A WAR
NTH KOROREA WENT ON A WAR
FOOTING TODAY AND ISSUED AN
FOOTING TODAY AND
ISSUED AN ULTIMATUM.
ULTIMATUM. THE NORTH'S
LEADER, KIM JONG UN,
THE NORTH'S LEADER, KIM JONG UN,
DEMANDED SOUTH KOREA HALT NEW
PROPAGANDA BROADCASTS AT THE
BORDER BY TOMORROW NIGHT, OR
BORDER BY TOMORROW NIGHT,
OR FACE A POSSIBLE ATTACK.
FACE A POSSIBLE ATTACK. AT
A BRIEFING IN PYONGYANG, A
AT A BRIEFING IN PYONGYANG, A
SENIOR NORTH KOREAN OFFICER
DECLARED THE SOUTH DESERVES
"SEVERE PUNISHMENT."
"SEVERE PUNISHMENT." >> (
translated): THEIR AIM
IS
>> (translated): THEIR
AIM IS TO BRING ABOUT THE
COLLAPSE OF
TO BRING ABOUT THE COLLAPSE OF
THE IDEOLOGY AND SYSTEM WHICH
OUR PEOPLE HAVE CHOSEN
THEMSELVES AND WHICH OUR
SOLDIERS PROTECT WITH THEIR
LIVES, AND TO DEPRIVE US OF OUR
POWER AND ALL AREAS OF OUR
POWER AND ALL AREAS
OF OUR LIVES.
LIVES. >> Woodruff:
IN TURN, SOUTH
>> Woodruff: IN TURN, SOUTH
KOREAN TROOPS WENT TO THEIR
HIGHEST ALERT STATUS, AMID
REPORTS OF NORTH KOREAN MISSILES
POSSIBLY MOVING TO LAUNCH
POSSIBLY MOVING TO
LAUNCH POSITIONS.
POSITIONS. AT THE SAME
TIME, U.S. OFFICIALS
AT THE SAME TIME, U.S. OFFICIALS
CONFIRMED A TEMPORARY PAUSE IN
MILITARY EXERCISES WITH SOUTH
MILITARY EXERCISES WITH
SOUTH KOREA, TO CONSULT.
KOREA, TO CONSULT. THE
EXERCISES HAVE SINCE
THE EXERCISES HAVE
SINCE RESUMED.
RESUMED. IN BELGIUM,
A MOROCCAN MAN WITH
IN BELGIUM, A MOROCCAN MAN WITH
AN AUTOMATIC WEAPON OPENED FIRE
THIS EVENING ON A HIGH-SPEED
TRAIN, WOUNDING THREE PEOPLE.
THEY INCLUDED AN AMERICAN
SERVICEMAN, WHO ALONG WITH
ANOTHER AMERICAN, OVERPOWERED
ANOTHER AMERICAN,
OVERPOWERED THE GUNMAN.
THE GUNMAN. THE TRAIN
WAS TRAVELING TO PARIS
THE TRAIN WAS TRAVELING
TO PARIS FROM AMSTERDAM.
FROM AMSTERDAM. ANTI-TERROR
POLICE OPENED AN
ANTI-TERROR POLICE OPENED AN
INVESTIGATION, BUT THERE WAS NO
INVESTIGATION, BUT THERE WAS
NO IMMEDIATE WORD ON A MOTIVE.
IMMEDIATE WORD ON A MOTIVE.
EUROPE'S MIGRANT CRISIS TURNED
VIOLENT TODAY ALONG MACEDONIA'S
BORDER WITH GREECE.
BORDER WITH GREECE. MACEDONIAN
SECURITY FORCES USED
MACEDONIAN SECURITY FORCES USED
FORCE TO DRIVE BACK THOUSANDS OF
MIGRANTS TRYING TO HEAD DEEPER
MIGRANTS TRYING TO HEAD
DEEPER INTO THE CONTINENT.
INTO THE CONTINENT. WE
HAVE A REPORT FROM JULIET
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JULIET
BREMNER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
TELEVISION NEWS. >>
Reporter: FROM ONE
>> Reporter: FROM ONE
BATTLEGROUND TO ANOTHER,
SURVIVORS FROM SYRIAN'S BRUTAL
CIVIL WAR BEEN DRIVEN BACK AT
CIVIL WAR BEEN DRIVEN BACK
AT THE MACEDONIAN BORDER.
THE MACEDONIAN BORDER. RIOT
POLICE USING TEAR GAS AND
RIOT POLICE USING TEAR GAS
AND STUN GRENADES FORCE AWAY
STUN GRENADES FORCE AWAY
HUNDREDS OF REFUGEES.
PARENTS TRY TO SHIELD THEIR
FRIGHTENED CHILDREN.
FRIGHTENED CHILDREN. IN THE
CHAOS, MIGRANTS DO THEIR
IN THE CHAOS, MIGRANTS DO THEIR
BEST TO TEND TO ONE ANOTHER'S
BEST TO TEND TO ONE
ANOTHER'S WOUNDS.
WOUNDS. A STATE OF
EMERGENCY HAS BEEN
A STATE OF EMERGENCY HAS BEEN
DECLARED IN THE SOUTH AND THE
DECLARED IN THE SOUTH AND
THE NORTH OF THE COUNTRY.
NORTH OF THE COUNTRY.
AROUND 36,000 ARRIVED IN
MACEDONIA LAST MONTH,
MACEDONIA LAST MONTH, HEADING
THROUGH GREECE TO THE
HEADING THROUGH GREECE TO THE
BORDER TOWN OF GEVGAYLIA.
TRAVELLING BY TRAIN TO KUMANOVO,
AND ONWARDS TO SERBIA AND
AND ONWARDS TO SERBIA
AND WESTERN EUROPE.
WESTERN EUROPE. THEY
DON'T WANT TO STAY IN
THEY DON'T WANT TO STAY IN
MACEDONIA, THEY ARE IN TRANSIT,
BUT NOW FIND THEMSELVES TRAPPED.
>> THERE IS MORE COMING.
THEY KNOW THAT WE ARE ONLY
THEY KNOW THAT WE
ARE ONLY CROSSING.
CROSSING. >> Reporter:
BUT THEY ARE NOW
>> Reporter: BUT THEY ARE NOW
STUCK, SLEEPING WITHOUT COVER IN
A COUNTRY THAT IS NOT PREPARED
A COUNTRY THAT IS NOT
PREPARED FOR THE INFLUX.
FOR THE INFLUX. >> THERE
ARE HUNDREDS, BABIES,
>> THERE ARE HUNDREDS,
BABIES, INCLUDING CA
INCLUDING CA MOST IF NOT
ALL OF THEM STAY IN
MOST IF NOT ALL OF THEM
STAY IN THE OPEN AIR.
THE OPEN AIR. >> Reporter:
THERE ARE CALLS
>> Reporter: THERE ARE CALLS
TONIGHT FOR AN END TO THESE
HEAVY HANDED TACTICS, AND GREECE
AND MACEDONIA TO INSTEAD OFFER
ASSISTANCE TO DESPERATE PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: MORE THAN 160,000
MIGRANTS HAVE ARRIVED IN GREECE
SO FAR THIS YEAR, AND NEARLY ALL
SO FAR THIS YEAR, AND
NEARLY ALL HEAD NORTH.
HEAD NORTH. PRESIDENT
OBAMA DECLARED AN
PRESIDENT OBAMA DECLARED AN
EMERGENCY IN PARTS OF WASHINGTON
STATE TODAY, AS OVER-STRETCHED
CREWS BATTLE A PLAGUE OF
CREWS BATTLE A
PLAGUE OF WILDFIRES.
WILDFIRES.
FAST-MOVING FLAMES HAVE SCORCHED
MORE THAN 160,000 ACRES IN THE
NORTH-CENTRAL PART OF THE STATE
ALONE, AND TWO MORE SMALL TOWNS
WERE EVACUATED OVERNIGHT.
OFFICIALS WARNED TODAY OF WORSE
TO COME. >> I THINK
PROBABLY EVERYBODY
>> I THINK PROBABLY EVERYBODY
ARS HEWIND HOWLING IN THE
MICROPHONES AND THAT IS WHAT IS
TRULY CHALLENGING FOLKS OUT ON
TRULY CHALLENGING FOLKS
OUT ON THE GROUND.
THE GROUND. WE'VE GOT
GUSTS ALREADY TO 40
WE'VE GOT GUSTS ALREADY
TO 40 MILES AN HOUR.
MILES AN HOUR. WE HAVE
A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
WE HAVE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
OPEN FIRE EDGE AT THE SOUTHERN
END OF ALL OF OUR FIRES AND THE
WIND IS WANTING TO MOVE IT.
WIND IS WANTING TO MOVE IT. >>
Woodruff: THREE FIREFIGHTERS
>> Woodruff: THREE FIREFIGHTERS
DIED THIS WEEK IN THE WASHINGTON
STATE FIRES AND ONE WAS
CRITICALLY BURNED.
CRITICALLY BURNED. NATIONWIDE,
13 HAVE DIED THIS
NATIONWIDE, 13 HAVE DIED THIS
YEAR-- FOUR MORE THAN ALL OF
YEAR-- FOUR MORE THAN
ALL OF LAST YEAR.
LAST YEAR. AND A U.S.
FEDERAL APPEALS COURT
AND A U.S. FEDERAL APPEALS COURT
TODAY REINSTATED RULES GIVING
THE MINIMUM WAGE AND OVERTIME
PAY TO NEARLY TWO MILLION HOME
PAY TO NEARLY TWO MILLION
HOME HEALTH WORKERS.
HEALTH WORKERS. A LOWER
COURT HAD STRUCK DOWN
A LOWER COURT HAD STRUCK DOWN
THE PROVISIONS EARLIER THIS
THE PROVISIONS
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
YEAR. UNIONS AND WORKER ADVOCACY
UNIONS AND WORKER ADVOCACY
GROUPS WELCOMED THE OUTCOME.
HOME CARE COMPANIES WARNED IT
MAKES THE CARE TOO EXPENSIVE FOR
MAKES THE CARE TOO EXPENSIVE
FOR MANY FAMILIES.
MANY FAMILIES. STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WALL STREET'S BIG WEEK OF LOSSES
WOMEN WARRIORS MAKING HISTORY AS
ARMY RANGERS, WHAT THE ASHLEY
MADISON HACK SAYS ABOUT PRIVACY
ON THE INTERNET AND MUCH MORE.
LET'S TAKE A CLOSER LOOK NOW AT
LET'S TAKE A CLOSER LOOK NOW
AT WALL STREET'S WILD DAY.
WALL STREET'S WILD DAY.
BRINGING TO A CLOSE A LONG WEEK
BRINGING TO A CLOSE A
LONG WEEK OF JITTERS.
OF JITTERS. FOR SOME
ANSWERS TO WHAT'S
FOR SOME ANSWERS TO WHAT'S
BEHIND IT ALL, WE TURN TO LIZ
ANN SONDERS, CHIEF INVESTMENT
STRATEGIST AT CHARLES SCHWAB.
LIZ ANN, WELCOME
BACK TO THE PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. I'M READING,
THIS IS THE WORST
I'M READING, THIS IS THE
WORST WEEK SINCE 2011.
WEEK SINCE 2011.
WHAT IS GOING ON?
WHAT IS GOING ON? >> SO
WHAT MAY ON THE SURFACE
>> SO WHAT MAY ON THE SURFACE
SEEM LIKE A BUNCH OF DISPARATE
THINGS, THEY'RE ACTUALLY
THINGS, THEY'RE
ACTUALLY INTERRELATED.
INTERRELATED. WEAK GROWTH
IN CHIERNTION DATA
WEAK GROWTH IN CHIERNTION DATA
CAME OUT TODAY SHOWING PART OF
THEIR ECONOMY IN CONTRACTION.
WE HAVE THE PLUNGE IN COMMODITY
PRICES INCLUDING OIL WHICH TIES
BACK TO THE WEAKNESS IN CHINA.
GLOBAL GROWTH CONCERNS,
DEFLATION CONCERNS AND DEFLATION
IS A FAIRLY TOXIC ENVIRONMENT
BECAUSE WTHERHE YOU'RE A
CONSUMER OR INVESTOR, IF PRICES
ARE CONTINUING TO GO DOWN, IT
HALTS ACTIVITY. THEN
THIS IS ALL BROUGHT UP
THEN THIS IS ALL BROUGHT UP
REGARDING FED POLICY AND HOW THE
FEDERAL RESERVE WILL REACT TO
THE GLOBAL TURMOIL AND WE WERE
OVERDUE FOR A CORRECTION.
IT'S BEEN ALMOST FOUR YEARS.
THEY NORMALLY HAPPEN EVERY YEAR.
SO THIS HAS BEEN A LONG SPAN OF
SO THIS HAS BEEN A LONG SPAN
OF VERY, VERY MILD EQUITY
VERY, VERY MILD
EQUITY PERFORMANCE.
PERFORMANCE. >> Woodruff:
WELL, WHEN YOU
>> Woodruff: WELL, WHEN YOU SAY
OVERDUE FOR A CORRECTION, I
SAY OVERDUE FOR A CORRECTION, I
DID READ ONE COLUMNIST IN THE
"NEW YORK TIMES" TODAY SAY THIS
IS ACTUALLY, AS BAD AS IT SEEMS,
HE SAID IT'S A MUCH NEEDED
BREATHER WHEN SOME MARKETS HAVE
BEEN STARTING TO LOOK A LITTLE
BEEN STARTING TO LOOK
A LITTLE BUBBLY.
BUBBLY. THAT WAS NEIL ERWIN.
THAT WAS NEIL ERWIN. >> I AGREE.
>> I AGREE. CORRECTIONS
ARE HEALTHY, IT
CORRECTIONS ARE HEALTHY, IT
KEEPS COMPLACENCY FROM BECOMING
KEEPS COMPLACENCY FROM
BECOMING PERVASIVE.
PERVASIVE. SO IT'S A
CLEANSING PROCESS.
SO IT'S A CLEANSING PROCESS.
WHETHER WE'RE AT THE END, I'M
WHETHER WE'RE AT THE
END, I'M NOT SURE.
NOT SURE. THE DOW
IS IN CORRECTION
THE DOW IS IN CORRECTION
TERRITORY, WHICH IS DOWN 10% OR
TERRITORY, WHICH IS
DOWN 10% OR MORE.
MORE. >> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED
CHINA, HOW ARE CHINA'S PROBLEMS
WITH ITS ECONOMY AFFECTING THESE
WITH ITS ECONOMY
AFFECTING THESE MARKETS?
MARKETS? >> AGAIN,
THEY HAVE BEEN HUGE
>> AGAIN, THEY HAVE BEEN HUGE
COMMODITY PRODUCERS, THEY CAUSED
A HUGE AMOUNT OF SUPPLY INCREASE
FORCE COMMODITIES, WHICH SET THE
FORCE COMMODITIES, WHICH SET
THE STAGE FOR THE PLUNGE WE'RE
STAGE FOR THE PLUNGE WE'RE
SEEING IN COMMODITIES.
SEEING IN COMMODITIES. SO
THAT'S A BIG PART OF IT.
SO THAT'S A BIG PART OF IT.
THEY ARE THE WORLD'S SECOND
LARGEST ECONOMY NOW.
LARGEST ECONOMY NOW. IF YOU
TAKE EUROPE AS A ZONE,
IF YOU TAKE EUROPE AS A ZONE,
THE EUROZONE IS THE SECOND
LARGEST TO THE U.S. BUT BY
LARGEST TO THE U.S. BUT
BY COUNTRY IT'S CHINA.
COUNTRY IT'S CHINA. THEY
ARE A BIG PRODUCER AND
THEY ARE A BIG PRODUCER
AND CONSUMER OF THINGS.
CONSUMER OF THINGS. THEY
HAVE AN EXPORT MARKET.
THEY HAVE AN EXPORT MARKET. WE
AND OTHER CNTRIOUES EXPORT TO
WE AND OTHER CNTRIOUES
EXPORT TO THEM.
THEM. SO A BIGGER THAN EXPECTED
SO A BIGGER THAN EXPECTED
SLOWDOWN IN CHINA ABSOLUTELY
AFFECTS GLOBAL GROWTH AND TO
AFFECTS GLOBAL GROWTH AND
TO SOME DEGREE OUR GROWTH.
SOME DEGREE OUR GROWTH. >>
Woodruff: OIL DOWN BELOW
>> Woodruff: OIL DOWN BELOW $40
A BARREL AT ONE POINT TODAY.
$40 A BARREL AT ONE POINT TODAY.
WHAT REAL IS THAT PLAYING?
>> FOR THE U.S. ECONOMY, 68%
TRIFFEN BY THE CONSUMER, IT'S
ULTIMATELY A GOOD THING, WE ARE
ULTIMATELY A GOOD THING,
WE ARE OIL CONSUMERS.
OIL CONSUMERS. THE
PROBLEM IS THE HIT IT
THE PROBLEM IS THE HIT IT
CAUSEOS THE ENERGY SECTOR IN
CAUSEOS THE ENERGY SECTOR
IN PARTICULAR TENDS TO COME
PARTICULAR TENDS TO COME
IMMEDIATE AND THE OFFSETTING
BENEFIT TO CONSUMERS TENDS TO
BENEFIT TO CONSUMERS
TENDS TO COME LATER.
COME LATER. SO WE'RE
DEALING WITH THE
SO WE'RE DEALING WITH THE
IMMEDIATE HIT BEFORE THE
OFFSETTING BENEFITS.
OFFSETTING BENEFITS. >>
Woodruff: FOR SOMEONE
>> Woodruff: FOR SOMEONE
THINKING, OH, MY GOODNESS, WHAT
ABOUT MY RETIREMENT ACCOUNT, A
ABOUT MY RETIREMENT ACCOUNT,
A 500-POINT-PLUS DROP SEEMS
500-POINT-PLUS DROP
SEEMS DRAMATIC.
DRAMATIC. HOW CONCERNED
SHOULD PEOPLE BE?
HOW CONCERNED SHOULD PEOPLE BE?
SHOULD THEY TAKE A DEEP BREATH
AND WAIT TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS
AND WAIT TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT WEEK.
NEXT WEEK. >> IT'S
ALWAYS A GOOD IDEA TO
>> IT'S ALWAYS A GOOD IDEA TO
TAKE A DEEP BREATH AND MOST
INVESTORS WHO HAVE ACTED IN
PANIC HAVE NOT SERVED THEMSELVES
PANIC HAVE NOT SERVED
THEMSELVES WELL.
WELL.
A 10% CORRECTION
IS FAIRLY NORMAL.
NORMAL. THEY HAPPEN EVERY YEAR.
THEY HAPPEN EVERY YEAR. I
THINK WE'LL ULTIMATELY GET
I THINK WE'LL ULTIMATELY GET
THROUGH IT AND DON'T MAKE RASH
THROUGH IT AND DON'T
MAKE RASH DECISIONS.
DECISIONS. WE HAVE
TO LOOK AT THINGS IN
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT THINGS
IN PERCENTAGE TERMS.
PERCENTAGE TERMS. >>
Woodruff: WHAT WOULD YOU
>> Woodruff: WHAT WOULD YOU
SAY ABOUT THE STATE OF THE
OVERALL HEALTH OF THE AMERICAN
OVERALL HEALTH OF THE
AMERICAN ECONOMY?
ECONOMY? >> I THINK
THE ECONOMY IS NOT
>> I THINK THE ECONOMY IS NOT
GOING TO SUFFER ALL THAT MUCH.
WE ARE A CLOSED ECONOMY TO SOME
DEGREE BECAUSE OUR ECONOMY IS
TWO-THIRDS DRIVEN BY THE U.S.
CONSUMER SO WE TEND TO BE
IMPACTED A BIT LESS BY THINGS
IMPACTED A BIT LESS BY
THINGS THAT WE SEE OVERSEAS.
THAT WE SEE OVERSEAS.
HOWEVER WE'RE IN A RELATIVELY
SLOW GROWTH MODE AND THIS WON'T
SLOW GROWTH MODE AND
THIS WON'T HELP THAT.
HELP THAT. SO I THINK
WE STAY IN THE SLOW
SO I THINK WE STAY IN THE SLOW
GROWTH ENVIRONMENT, I THINK THE
RISK OF RECESSION IS FAIRLY LOW.
>> Woodruff: LIZ ANN SONDERS,
CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST AT
CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST
AT CHARLES SCHWAB.
CHARLES SCHWAB. GOOD
TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
GOOD TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> THANKS, JUDY. YOU, TOO.
ONE OF THE MOST STORIED
INSTITUTIONS IN THE U.S.
MILITARY MARKED A MILESTONE
MILITARY MARKED A
MILESTONE TODAY.
TODAY. FOR THE FIRST
TIME, TWO WOMEN
FOR THE FIRST TIME, TWO
WOMEN RANGER SCHOOL.
RANGER SCHOOL. IT'S A
STEP TOWARD INCREASING
IT'S A STEP TOWARD INCREASING
WOMEN'S ROLE IN WAR FIGHTING.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET
WARNER HAS OUR STORY.
HAS OUR STORY. >>
Reporter: IT WAS AN ARMY
>> Reporter: IT WAS AN ARMY
RANGER GRADUATION UNLIKE ANY
OTHER: TWO WOMEN JOINING 94 MEN.
OTHER: TWO WOMEN JOINING 94
MEN. MAJOR GENERAL SCOTT MILLER
MAJOR GENERAL SCOTT MILLER
HAILED THE SURVIVORS OF THE
GRUELING NINE-WEEK COURSE AT
GRUELING NINE-WEEK COURSE
AT FORT BENNING, GEORGIA.
FORT BENNING, GEORGIA. >> IT
IS ALL OF YOU WHO KNOW THE
>> IT IS ALL OF YOU WHO KNOW THE
CHALLENGE OF PERSEVERING THROUGH
PRIVATION WHEN MOST HUMANS WOULD
PRIVATION WHEN MOST
HUMANS WOULD JUST QUIT.
JUST QUIT. YOU'RE
LEAVING VICTORNDIECE OF
YOU'RE LEAVING VICTORNDIECE
OF CLOTH ON YOUR SHOULDERS.
CLOTH ON YOUR SHOULDERS. BUT
MORE IMPORTANTLY, YOU CARRY
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, YOU CARRY
THE TITLE OF RANGER FROM HERE ON
THE TITLE OF RANGER
FROM HERE ON OUT.
OUT. >> Reporter:
THIS WAS THE FIRST
>> Reporter: THIS WAS THE FIRST
YEAR THE ARMY HAS ALLOWED WOMEN
TO TRY TO QUALIFY OR THE ELITE
TO TRY TO QUALIFY OR THE
ELITE RANGER FORCE.
RANGER FORCE. 19 BEGAN
THE COURSE, ALONG WITH
19 BEGAN THE COURSE, ALONG
WITH ABOUT 345 MEN.
ABOUT 345 MEN. THE TWO
WOMEN WHO ULTIMATELY
THE TWO WOMEN WHO ULTIMATELY
QUALIFIED FOR THE BLACK-AND-GOLD
QUALIFIED FOR THE
BLACK-AND-GOLD NGERAR TAB:
NGERAR TAB: CAPTAIN
KRISTEN GRIEST, A 26-
CAPTAIN KRISTEN GRIEST, A 26-
YEAR-OLD MILITARY POLICE
OFFICER, WHO SPOKE ABOUT THE
OFFICER, WHO SPOKE ABOUT
THE CHALLENGES YESTERDAY.
CHALLENGES YESTERDAY. >>
KNOWING THAT YOU HAVE TO
>> KNOWING THAT YOU HAVE TO
UPHOLD THAT LEGACY EVERY DAY,
YOU CAN'T REALLY HAVE AN OFF-
DAY, YOU CAN'T BE TIRED, YOU
NEED TO GO THE EXTRA MILE.
>> Reporter: AND 25-YEAR-OLD
FIRST LIEUTENANT SHAYE HAVER, AN
FIRST LIEUTENANT SHAYE HAVER,
AN APACHE HELICOPTER PILOT.
APACHE HELICOPTER PILOT. >>
AT EACH EVENT WE SUCCEEDED
>> AT EACH EVENT WE SUCCEEDED
IN, WE KIND OF WERE WINNING
HEARTS AND MINDS AS WE WENT.
>> Reporter: AT YESTERDAY'S
BRIEFING, THEY DESCRIBED THE
EXHAUSTING PHYSICAL AND MENTAL
EXHAUSTING PHYSICAL AND
MENTAL TRIALS OF THE COURSE.
TRIALS OF THE COURSE. >> THE
MENTAL SIDE OF THE ISSUE
>> THE MENTAL SIDE OF THE ISSUE
IS YOU COME IS GOING TO BE THE
MOST CHALLENGING THING YOU WILL
EVER FACE AND EXCEEDING THAT, MY
ADVICE IS TO, ONCE YOU GET TO
THAT POINT, KEEP GOING AND
REALIZE YOUR MIND CAN TAKE A
WHOLE LOT MORE THAN YOUR BODY
WHOLE LOT MORE THAN
YOUR BODY CAN.
CAN. >> WHEN YOUR
SQUAD GETS 2,000
>> WHEN YOUR SQUAD GETS 2,000
ROUNDS OF AMMO OR YOU REALIZE
THAT YOU ARE THE WEAPONS SQUAD
AND YOU'VE GOT TWO MACHINE GUNS
TO CARRY AND YOU LOOK AROUND AND
THERE'S ONLY TEN OF YOU OR SO
AND EVERYBODY, ALL OF A SUDDEN
ALL THE MEN REALLY DON'T CARE AT
ALL THAT YOU ARE FEMALE, YOU'RE
CARRYING SOME OF THAT AND YOU
FEEL THE EXACT SAME WAY AND YOU
ARE GOING TO HELP SHARE THE LOAD
ARE GOING TO HELP SHARE THE
LOAD AS MUCH AS ANYBODY.
AS MUCH AS ANYBODY. >>
Reporter: INDEED, SOME OF
>> Reporter: INDEED, SOME
OF THEIR MALE COUNTERPARTS
THEIR MALE COUNTERPARTS
ACKNOWLEDGED THEY HAD THEIR
DOUBTS, AT THE OUTSET.
DOUBTS, AT THE OUTSET. >> I
WAS SKEPTICAL IF THEY COULD
>> I WAS SKEPTICAL IF THEY COULD
HANDLE IT PHYSICALLY AND THEN WE
HANDLE IT PHYSICALLY AND THEN
WE GOT TO MOUNTAINS AND WE WERE
GOT TO MOUNTAINS AND WE
WERE DOING A LONG WALK.
DOING A LONG WALK. I WAS
THE 320 GUNNER SO I HAD A
I WAS THE 320 GUNNER SO I HAD A
LOT OF WEIGHT ON ME AND I WAS
STRUGGLING AND THEN I STOPPED
AND I ASKED AT A HALFWAY POINT
CAN ANYONE TAKE SOME OF THIS
WEIGHT, I GOT A LOT OF DEER IN
THE HEADLIGHT LOOKS AND A LOT OF
PEOPLE WERE LIKE I CAN'T TAKE
PEOPLE WERE LIKE I CAN'T
TAKE ANY MORE WEIGHT.
ANY MORE WEIGHT. SHAY
WAS THE ONLY ONE TO
SHAY WAS THE ONLY ONE TO
VOLUNTEER TO TAKE THAT WEIGHT.
SHE TOOK THAT WEIGHT OFF OF ME
AND CARRIED IT THE LAST HALF OF
THAT RUCK, LITERALLY SAVED ME.
I PROBABLY WOULDN'T BE SITTING
HERE RIGHT NOW IF IT WASN'T FOR
HERE RIGHT NOW IF
IT WASN'T FOR SHAY.
SHAY. >> Reporter:
FOR ALL THE PRAISE,
>> Reporter: FOR ALL THE PRAISE,
CAPTAIN GRIEST AND LIEUTENANT
HAVER ARE NOT ELIGIBLE TO
ACTUALLY JOIN THE RANGER
ACTUALLY JOIN THE
RANGER REGIMENT.
REGIMENT. THAT STILL
REMAINS CLOSED TO
THAT STILL REMAINS
CLOSED TO WOMEN.
WOMEN. THEY'LL MOST
LIKELY BE ASSIGNED
THEY'LL MOST LIKELY BE ASSIGNED
SUPPORT ROLES INSTEAD.
SUPPORT ROLES INSTEAD. BUT
THAT COULD CHANGE IN THE
BUT THAT COULD CHANGE IN THE
NEXT FEW MONTHS, THOUGH, AS THE
PENTAGON FINISHES REVIEWING ITS
POLICY ON INTEGRATING WOMEN INTO
POLICY ON INTEGRATING
WOMEN INTO COMBAT UNITS.
COMBAT UNITS. DEFENSE
SECRETARY ASHTON CARTER
DEFENSE SECRETARY ASHTON CARTER
INDICATED HIS OPENNESS TO THAT
YESTERDAY AT THE PENTAGON.
YESTERDAY AT THE PENTAGON. >>
THE DEPARTMENT'S POLICY IS
>> THE DEPARTMENT'S POLICY IS
THAT ALL GROUND COMBAT POSITIONS
WILL BE OPEN TO WOMEN, UNLESS
RIGOROUS ANALYSIS OF FACTUAL
DATA SHOWS THAT THE POSITIONS
MUST REMAIN CLOSED.
MUST REMAIN CLOSED. ON
OCTOBER FIRST, THE SERVICES
ON OCTOBER FIRST, THE SERVICES
WILL PROVIDE A REPORT TO THE
CHAIRMAN REQUESTING ANY
EXCEPTION TO THIS POLICY.
EXCEPTION TO THIS POLICY. AND
I'LL REVIEW THE SERVICES
AND I'LL REVIEW THE SERVICES
RECOMMENDATION AND MAKE A FINAL
DETERMINATION ON THAT ISSUE BY
DETERMINATION ON THAT ISSUE
BY THE END OF THIS YEAR.
THE END OF THIS YEAR. >>
Reporter: EVEN IF WOMEN
>> Reporter: EVEN IF WOMEN
EVENTUALLY DO GAIN ACCESS TO
MOST COMBAT ROLES, THE PENTAGON
MAY ALLOW SERVICE LEADERS TO
MAY ALLOW SERVICE LEADERS
TO REQUEST EXEMPTIONS.
REQUEST EXEMPTIONS. >>
Woodruff: INTERNET HACKERS
>> Woodruff: INTERNET HACKERS
DUMPED TROVES OF PERSONAL
INFORMATION THIS WEEK STOLEN
FROM AN ADULTERY WEBSITE,
RAISING NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT
ONLINE PRIVACY AND THE ABILITY
OF WEBSITES TO PROTECT IT.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR LOOK.
>> Sreenivasan: THE HACKERS SAID
THE ATTACK ON ALEY SHMADISON WAS
MOTIVATED BY THE FAILURE OF ITS
PARENT COMPANY TO DELIVER ON A
SERVICE THAT PROMISED TO ERASE
USERS' INFORMATION FOR A FEE.
MILLIONS OF NAMES, EMAIL
ADDRESSES AND PARTIAL CREDIT
CARD NUMBERS WERE RELEASED.
CARD NUMBERS WERE RELEASED. A
PUBLIC OUTING THAT HAS RAISED
A PUBLIC OUTING THAT HAS RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW MUCH PRIVACY
ANY OF US ENJOY ONLINE.
ANY OF US ENJOY ONLINE. JOINING
ME TO DISCUSS THAT ARE:
JOINING ME TO DISCUSS THAT ARE:
NEIL RICHARDS, A PROFESSOR OF
LAW AT WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN
LAW AT WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
IN ST. LOUIS, WHERE HE STUDIES
ST. LOUIS, WHERE HE STUDIES
PRIVACY AND THE INTERNET AND
JULIA ANGWIN, WHO COVERS PRIVACY
JULIA ANGWIN, WHO COVERS
PRIVACY FOR "PROPUBLICA."
FOR "PROPUBLICA." HER MOST
RECENT BOOK IS CALLED
HER MOST RECENT BOOK IS CALLED
"DRAGNET NATION: A QUEST FOR
PRIVACY, SECURITY AND FREEDOM IN
PRIVACY, SECURITY AND FREEDOM
IN A WORLD OF RELENTLESS
A WORLD OF RELENTLESS
SURVEILLANCE."
SURVEILLANCE." NEIL, I
WANT TO START WITH YOU
NEIL, I WANT TO START
WITH YOU FIRST.
FIRST. WE'VE HAD THE
SONY PICTURES HACK
WE'VE HAD THE SONY PICTURES HACK
WHERE THOUSANDS OF EMPLOYEES OF
WHERE THOUSANDS OF EMPLOYEES
OF THE CORPORATION HAD THEIR
THE CORPORATION HAD THEIR
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION
RELEASED, WE HAD THE OFFICE OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT HACKED, THE
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT HACKED,
THE 22 MILLION MEMBERS OF THE
22 MILLION MEMBERS OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, AND
CELEBRITY HACKS WHERE
UNSUSPECTING CELEBRITIES HAD
PHOTOS FROM iPhoneS AND ICLOUD
PHOTOS FROM iPhoneS
AND ICLOUD RELEASED.
RELEASED. WHAT MAKES
THIS DIFFERENT?
WHAT MAKES THIS DIFFERENT?
>> IT'S CERTAINLY DIFFERENT
BECAUSE IT'S NOR SALACIOUS.
IT INVOLVES SEX AND BETRAYAL.
I THINK THE MAGNITUDE OF THE
HACK AND THE SENSITIVITY OF THE
HACK AND THE SENSITIVITY OF
THE INFORMATION EXPOSED.
INFORMATION EXPOSED. I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
THINK ABOUT THESE QUESTIONS
BECAUSE THIS IS A LITTLE MORE
JUICY IN TERMS OF MAYBE LIKE
TABLOID NEWS THAN SOME OF THE
OTHER HACKS BUT IT DRAWS OUR
ATTENTION TO INCREASINGLY WHAT
ATTENTION TO INCREASINGLY
WHAT IS ON ENORMOUS PROBLEM.
IS ON ENORMOUS PROBLEM. >>
Sreenivasan: INFORMATION
>> Sreenivasan: INFORMATION
ESPECIALLY ON A SENSITIVE SITE
LIKE THIS SITS IN A LOCKBOX.
TO CREDIT THIS SITE, THIS
DIGITAL SET OF LOCKS WAS BETTER
DIGITAL SET OF LOCKS WAS
BETTER THAN AVERAGE.
THAN AVERAGE. IS THERE
SUCH A THING AS TRUE
IS THERE SUCH A THING
AS TRUE SECURITY?
SECURITY? AS SOON AS
YOU TYPE SOMETHING,
AS SOON AS YOU TYPE SOMETHING,
IS IT OUT THERE FOREVER?
IS IT OUT THERE FOREVER? >>
SADLY, WHAT WE'RE LEARNING IS
>> SADLY, WHAT WE'RE LEARNING IS
THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE A LOT
OF TRUE SECURITY OUT THERE IN
OF TRUE SECURITY OUT
THERE IN THE REAL WORLD.
THE REAL WORLD. THERE MAY
BE THEORETICALLY REAL
THERE MAY BE THEORETICALLY
REAL SECURE STUFF.
SECURE STUFF. BUT WE'VE
SEEN A VERY GOVERNMENT
BUT WE'VE SEEN A VERY
GOVERNMENT SENSITIVE HACK.
SENSITIVE HACK. YOU CAN
CONSIDER WHAT'S KNOWN TO
YOU CAN CONSIDER WHAT'S KNOWN TO
BE SAFE, YOU KNOW, TAKING FILES
THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN SECURED.
THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN
SECURED. SO SEEMS NOTHING IS
SO SEEMS NOTHING
IS WAY, I THINK.
WAY, I THINK. THERE IS
ANOTHER WORLD, YOU CAN
THERE IS ANOTHER WORLD, YOU CAN
IMAGINE, WHERE THE DATA WOULD BE
IMAGINE, WHERE THE DATA WOULD
BE SECURE, AND WE HAVE TO BUILD
SECURE, AND WE HAVE TO
BUILD THAT, I THINK.
THAT, I THINK. >>
Sreenivasan: SO, JULIA,
>> Sreenivasan: SO, JULIA,
STAYING WITH YOU FOR A SECOND.
IS THIS THE REASON SOME OF THESE
EPHEMERAL PLATFORMS SUCH AS SNAP
CHAT WHERE YOU'RE WRITING WITH
DISAPPEARING, INC. OR PERISCOPE,
WHERE YOUR LIVE STREAM
DISAPPEARS IN HOURS, IS THAT WHY
PEOPLE ARE GOING ON THIS BECAUSE
THEY DON'T WANT TO LEAVE A
DIGITAL TRAIL AND THE FOLLOW-UP
IS IF IT TRULY TEMPORARY?
IS IF IT TRULY TEMPORARY? >>
THE REASON PEOPLE ARE GOING
>> THE REASON PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO EPHEMERAL IS EXACTLY THIS.
YOU DON'T WANT TO HAVE A
PERMANENT RECORD OF EVERYTHING
PERMANENT RECORD OF
EVERYTHING YOU DO IN LIFE.
YOU DO IN LIFE. THE
WORLD WE LIVE IN WITH
THE WORLD WE LIVE IN WITH
DIGITAL DATA HAS LED TO THAT
WORLD WHERE THERE IS A PERMANENT
RECORD FOR EVERYTHING.
RECORD FOR EVERYTHING. THE
PROBLEM WITH THE EPHEMERAL
THE PROBLEM WITH THE EPHEMERAL
SERVICES IS SOME OF THEM PROVE
TO BE NOT EFAMILY RAIL.
TO BE NOT EFAMILY RAIL. THE
SNAP CHAT SETTLED WITH THE
THE SNAP CHAT SETTLED WITH THE
F.E.P. BECAUSE THEIR DATA WASN'T
AS EPHEMERAL AS THEY SAID SO
WE'RE AWAITING THE TRUE PROMISE
WE'RE AWAITING THE TRUE
PROMISE OF EPHEMERAL DATA.
OF EPHEMERAL DATA. >>
Sreenivasan: THERE'S A CAMP
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S A
CAMP THAT SAYS IF YOU WEREN'T
THAT SAYS IF YOU WEREN'T
PLANNING ON AN AFFAIR, YOU HAVE
NOTHING TO HIEVMENTD THERE IS A
NOTHING TO HIEVMENTD THERE IS
A DISTINCTION OF PRIVACY AND
DISTINCTION OF
PRIVACY AND SECRECY.
SECRECY. PRIVACY IS
A FREEDOM I HAVE TO
PRIVACY IS A FREEDOM I HAVE
TO CHOOSE WHOM TO SHARE THIS
CHOOSE WHOM TO SHARE
THIS INFORMATION WITH.
INFORMATION WITH. >>
YEAH, IT MAKES FOR A GAD
>> YEAH, IT MAKES FOR A GAD
SOUND BYTE BUT NOT GOOD POLICY
TO SAY WE SHOULD MAKE EVERYTHING
TRANCE PARENTS AND PEOPLE WITH
NOTHING TO HIDE HAVE NOTHING TO
NOTHING TO HIDE HAVE
NOTHING TO FEAR.
FEAR. WE ALL WEAR
CLOTHES, WE ALL LOCK
WE ALL WEAR CLOTHES, WE ALL
LOCK OUR HOUSES, WE ALL LIKE
OUR HOUSES, WE ALL LIKE
PASSWORDS ON OUR ACCOUNTS.
PASSWORDS ON OUR ACCOUNTS. I
THINK TH THE ISSUE HERE IS NOT
I THINK TH THE ISSUE HERE IS NOT
WHETHER SOME PEOPLE WHO CHEAT ON
THEIR MARRIAGES GOT THEIR COME
THEIR MARRIAGES GOT
THEIR COME UPENS.
UPENS. IT'S A WHETHER
WE'RE GOING TO BE
IT'S A WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO TRUST THE INFORMATION
RELATIONSHIP WHICH CHARACTERIZES
OUR LIVES AND, YES, DATING SITES
OUR LIVES AND, YES, DATING
SITES ARE AMONG THEM BUT MORE
ARE AMONG THEM BUT MORE
IMPORTANTLY SOCIAL NETWORK
SITES, DATA BROKERS, OUR
RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS, ALL THESE
ARE INFORMATION RELATIONSHIPS
AND SAFE GAR BID SOME LEVELS OF
SECURITY AND I THINK THE ASHLEY
MADISON STORY IS A SALACIOUS ONE
BUT AN IMPORTANT REMINDER WE
NEED TO DO A BETTER JOB OF
SAFEGUARDING SENSITIVE DATA IN
OUR SOCIETY, SO BETTER LAWS AND
OUR SOCIETY, SO BETTER LAWS
AND TECHNICAL PRACTICES AND
TECHNICAL PRACTICES AND
INCENTIVES FOR COMPANIES TO DO
INCENTIVES FOR
COMPANIES TO DO THIS.
THIS. WE HAVE A LOT TO DO.
WE HAVE A LOT TO DO. IT'S
IMPORTANT TO FOCUS ON.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO FOCUS ON.
THIS WHAT'S AT STAKE IS WHETHER
WE CAN CONTINUE TO TRUST OUR
WE CAN CONTINUE TO TRUST
OUR DIGITAL SOCIETY.
DIGITAL SOCIETY. >>
Sreenivasan: IS THE NOTION
>> Sreenivasan: IS THE NOTION OF
PRIVACY AN ANTIQUATED IDEA OR
OF PRIVACY AN ANTIQUATED IDEA
OR PERHAPS IS IT DIFFERENT FROM
PERHAPS IS IT DIFFERENT FROM
GENERATION TO GENERATION?
>> WELL, PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
BEMOANING THE DEATH OF PRIVACY
IN AMERICAN LIFE FOR ABOUT 130
YEARS, SINCE THE LATE 19t
YEARS, SINCE THE LATE
19t 19th CENTURY.
19th CENTURY. PRIVACY
IS ABOUT WHAT
PRIVACY IS ABOUT WHAT
INFORMATION WE HAVE CONTROL
OVER, ABOUT HOW WE GET
EMBARRASSED, WHAT INFORMATION
RESTRICTION CAN DO FOR US.
PRIVACY DEPENDS ON SOCIAL NORMS,
PRIVACY DEPENDS ON SOCIAL
NORMS, IT'S ALWAYS CHANGES.
IT'S ALWAYS CHANGES. IN AN
INFORMATION SOCIETY, WHAT
IN AN INFORMATION SOCIETY, WHAT
WE'RE LIVING IN, IF WE HAVE NO
WE'RE LIVING IN, IF WE HAVE
NO PRIVACY RULES, WE HAVE NO
PRIVACY RULES, WE HAVE NO
INFORMATION RULES, WHICH MEANS
WE HAVE NO RULES AND, SO, RULES
GOVERNING PASSWORDS, PERSONAL
DATA, SEARCH ENGINES, CONSUMER
CREDIT REPORTS, THEY ARE
CREDIT REPORTS,
THEY ARE ESSENTIAL.
ESSENTIAL. AND I THINK
WE ARE STRUGGLING AS
AND I THINK WE ARE STRUGGLING AS
IN OTHER AREAS OF THE INTERNET,
WE ARE STRUGGLING AND STUMBLING
INTO THE FUTURE HALF BLIND
IT'S IMPORTANT TO DO A BETTER
IT'S IMPORTANT TO DO A
BETTER JOB AND DO IT RIGHT.
JOB AND DO IT RIGHT. >>
Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
THINGS YOU LOOKED AT IN YOUR
BOOK IS TRYING TO FIND ALL THE
INFORMATION ABOUT YOU THAT
INFORMATION ABOUT
YOU THAT EXISTS.
EXISTS. OBVIOUSLY
THERE ARE PUBLIC
OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE
PUBLIC RECORDS OUT THERE.
RECORDS OUT THERE. WE
CAN TRY TO GUESS WHAT'S
WE CAN TRY TO GUESS WHAT'S
AVAILABLE BUT WHAT SURPRISED
AVAILABLE BUT WHAT
SURPRISED YOU?
YOU? >> I'M TRYING
TO FIND AS MUCH AS
>> I'M TRYING TO FIND AS MUCH
AS I COULD ABOUT MYSELF.
I COULD ABOUT MYSELF. I
WASN'T THAT SUCCESSFUL.
I WASN'T THAT SUCCESSFUL.
IT'S WORTH POINTING OUT THERE
ARE NOT THINGS TALKING ABOUT
YOURDA AT THAT. WHAT SURPRISED
ME IS THEY KNEW I BOUGHT
UNDERWEAR ONLINE LAST WEEK AND
THAT FILE WAS SOLD TO MARKETERS.
I FOUND THE GOVERNMENT THROUGH A
I FOUND THE GOVERNMENT THROUGH
A CONFUSING SLIPUP WITH MY
CONFUSING SLIPUP WITH MY
EMPLOYER HAD ACCESS TO MY TRAVEL
PLANS AS A REPORTER AND WHO I
WAS PLANNING TO SEE BECAUSE TO
HAVE THE WAY WE USED OUR SYSTEM,
THAT DATABASE WAS BEING SENT AN
ENTIRETY OF MY FUTURE TRAVEL
PLANS TO A GOVERNMENT DATABASE.
SO IT WAS REALLY SURPRISING AND
DISTURBING STUFF IN THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: JULIA, YOU
>> Sreenivasan: JULIA, YOU TOOK
ELABORATE MEASURES MOST OF
TOOK ELABORATE MEASURES MOST OF
US COULDN'T TAKE YOU ESSENTIALLY
HAVE ALTERNATE IDENTITY CREDIT
HAVE ALTERNATE IDENTITY
CREDIT CARDS, ET CETERA.
CARDS, ET CETERA. ARE
THERE SAFE INFORMATION
ARE THERE SAFE INFORMATION
SHARING PRACTICES, THINGS WE CAN
DO ON A DAILY BASIS TO SAFEGUARD
DO ON A DAILY BASIS TO
SAFEGUARD AGAINST THIS?
AGAINST THIS? >> I
WISH I COULD GIVE YOU
>> I WISH I COULD GIVE YOU
BETTER SET OF GUIDELINES BUT THE
FACT IS THAT IT'S REALLY HARD TO
FACT IS THAT IT'S REALLY HARD
TO AVOID THESE KINDS OF THINGS.
AVOID THESE KINDS OF THINGS.
HOWEVER, THAT SAID, SOME BASIC
HOWEVER, THAT SAID, SOME
BASIC PRECAUTIONS ARE BETTER
PRECAUTIONS ARE BETTER
PASSWORDS, REALLY LONG
PASSWORDS, SO AS LONG AS YOU CAN
MAKE IT, 30 TO 40 CHARACTERS.
ACTUALLY, YOU KNOW, YOU TALK
ABOUT FAKE IDENTITIES LIKE IT'S
A CRAZY THING, BUT MIX UP A
COUPLE OF EMAIL ADDRESSES MAYBE
NOT WITH YOUR RIGHT NAME FOR
WHICH YOU RESTERGI FOR SITES
LIKE ASHLEY MADISON, FOR
LIKE ASHLEY MADISON,
FOR INSTANCE.
INSTANCE. >> Sreenivasan:
THANK YOU BOTH
>> Sreenivasan: THANK
YOU BOTH FOR YOUR TIME.
FOR YOUR TIME. THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: HOW
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY IS
TURNING ITS FOCUS TO LOW-INCOME
STUDENTS, PLUS ANALYSIS OF THE
WEEK'S NEWS WITH MARK SHIELDS
WEEK'S NEWS WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
AND MICHAEL GERSON. BUT
FIRST: PRESIDENT OBAMA WON A
BUT FIRST: PRESIDENT OBAMA WON A
SIGNIFICANT ENDORSEMENT TODAY
FOR THE IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT
AS REPRESENTATIVE JEROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK ANNOUNCED HIS
OF NEW YORK ANNOUNCED
HIS SUPPORT.
SUPPORT. NADLERS'
DECISION FOLLOWED A
NADLERS' DECISION FOLLOWED
A PERSONAL APPEAL FROM THE
PERSONAL APPEAL FROM THE
PRESIDENT, WHO SENT HIM A LETTER
PLEDGING THAT THE U.S. WOULD
CONTINUE ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON
IRAN AND KEEP MILITARY OPTIONS
IRAN AND KEEP MILITARY
OPTIONS OPEN.
OPEN. TONIGHT WE
CONTINUE OUR SERIES
TONIGHT WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
OF CONVERSATIONS ON THE
AGREEMENT AS PART OF OUR "DEAL
AGREEMENT AS PART OF OUR
"DEAL OR NO DEAL" SERIES.
OR NO DEAL" SERIES. EARLIER
THIS WEEK WE HEARD FROM
EARLIER THIS WEEK WE HEARD FROM
AN ISRAELI SCIENTIST WHO WAS
AN ISRAELI SCIENTIST WHO
WAS OPPOSED TO THE DEAL.
OPPOSED TO THE DEAL. THIS
EVENING WE HEAR FROM THE
THIS EVENING WE HEAR FROM
THE FORMER HEAD OF ISRAEL'S
FORMER HEAD OF ISRAEL'S
INTELLIGENCE AND SPECIAL
OPERATIONS AGENCY THE MOSSAD,
EPHRAIM HALEVY, WHO IS BREAKING
WITH HIS COUNTRY'S GOVERNMENT
AND PUBLIC OPINION TO SUPPORT
AND PUBLIC OPINION TO
SUPPORT THE AGREEMENT.
THE AGREEMENT. MR. HALEVY,
GIVEN YOU DISAGREE
MR. HALEVY, GIVEN YOU DISAGREE
WITH YOUR GOVERNMENT, WHY DO
WITH YOUR GOVERNMENT,
WHY DO YOU?
YOU? WHAT MAKES YOU SEE IN THIS
WHAT MAKES YOU SEE IN THIS
AGREEMENT THAT MAKES YOU SUPPORT
AGREEMENT THAT MAKES
YOU SUPPORT IT?
IT? >> I BELIEVE THIS AGREEMENT
>> I BELIEVE THIS AGREEMENT
CLOSES THE RECORD AND BLOCKS THE
ROAD TO IRANIAN NUCLEAR MILITARY
CAPABILITIES FOR AT LEAST A
DECADE, AND I BELIEVE THAT THE
ARRANGEMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
AGREED BETWEEN THE PARTIES ARE
SUCH THAT GIVE US A CREDIBLE
ANSWER TO THE IRANIAN MILITARY
THREAT AT LEAST FOR A DECADE IF
THREAT AT LEAST FOR A
DECADE IF NOT LONGER.
NOT LONGER. >> Woodruff:
YOU HAVE SAID
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE SAID THAT
THIS AGREEMENT IS HISTORIC
THAT THIS AGREEMENT IS HISTORIC
FROM THE IRANIAN POINT OF VIEW.
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT?
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT? >>
UP TO A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO,
>> UP TO A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO,
THE IRANIANS REFUSED TO DISCUSS
THEIR NUCLEAR PROGRAMS ON THE
THEIR NUCLEAR PROGRAMS ON
THE BASIS OF A NEGOTIATION,
BASIS OF A NEGOTIATION,
INTERNATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS.
THEY SAID THIS WAS THEIR
SOVEREIGN RIGHT TO DO WHATEVER
SOVEREIGN RIGHT TO DO
WHATEVER THEY WISHED.
THEY WISHED. THEY CAVED IN.
THEY CAVED IN. THEY
HAVE ENTERED HAVE A
THEY HAVE ENTERED HAVE A
DETAILED DISCUSSION OF THEIR
DETAILED DISCUSSION OF
THEIR CAPABILITIES.
CAPABILITIES. THEY HAVE
AGREED TO AN AGREEMENT
THEY HAVE AGREED TO AN AGREEMENT
WHICH LISTS THEIR VARIOUS
FACILITIES IN IRAN.
FACILITIES IN IRAN. THEY
HAVE AGREED TO KNOCKING OUT
THEY HAVE AGREED TO KNOCKING OUT
THE FIRST AND FOREMOST IMPORTANT
ELEMENT IN IT, THEIR LOCATION IN
ELEMENT IN IT, THEIR LOCATION
IN IRAQ WHICH IS A PLUTOGENIC
IRAQ WHICH IS A PLUTOGENIC
PRODUCING FACILITY IN POTENTIAL.
THE CORE OF THIS PARTICULAR
ASPECT IS GOING TO BE DESTROYED,
AND THAT MEANS THAT THERE WILL
BE NO CAPABILITY OF THE IRANIANS
TO ULTIMATELY WEAPONNIZE
WHATEVER THEY ARE DOING FOR THE
PURPOSES OF ATTACKING ANYBODY
AROUND THE WORLD FOR THE NEXT
AROUND THE WORLD FOR
THE NEXT DECADE.
DECADE. IF ONLY FOR
THAT ELEMENT ALONE,
IF ONLY FOR THAT ELEMENT ALONE,
I WOULD SAY THIS IS AN AGREEMENT
WORTH WHILE ACCEPTING.
WORTH WHILE ACCEPTING. >>
Woodruff: YOU SAID A MOMENT
>> Woodruff: YOU SAID A MOMENT
AGO YOU BELIEVE THIS CLOSES THE
ROAD OR ROUTE TO IRAN'S MILITARY
CAPABILITIES FOR AT LEAST A
CAPABILITIES FOR
AT LEAST A DECADE.
DECADE. WHY ARE YOU
SO CONFIDENT OF
WHY ARE YOU SO
CONFIDENT OF THAT?
THAT? AS YOU KNOW,
ISRAEL'S PRIME
AS YOU KNOW, ISRAEL'S PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU SAYS
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
SAYS JUST THE OPPOSITE.
JUST THE OPPOSITE. >>
WELL, I'VE LOOKED AT THE
>> WELL, I'VE LOOKED AT THE
DETAILS OF THE AGREEMENT.
DETAILS OF THE AGREEMENT. AS I
SAID, ON THE ISSUE OF IRAQ,
AS I SAID, ON THE ISSUE OF IRAQ,
THE PLUTOGENIC PROGRAM, IT'S
CLEAR THE CORE OF THE REACTOR IS
CLEAR THE CORE OF THE REACTOR
IS GOING TO BE DESTROYED.
GOING TO BE DESTROYED.
WHERE THEY'VE HAD A LOT OF
CENTRIFUGES UP TILL NOW, FOR
THOSE, THEY WILL BE RESTRICTED
ONLY TO SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
THERE IS GOING TO BE A CLEAR WAY
OF MONITORING WHAT IS GOING ON
THERE AND THE FACILITIES THERE
WHICH WOULD ALLOW THE PRODUCE OF
NATANZ AND THE PIPING AND OTHER
ELEMENTS NECESSARY, TO PASS ON
WHATEVER THEY PRODUCE IN ORDER
TO PROCESS IT INTO SOMETHING OF
A MILITARY NATURE IS ALSO GOING
A MILITARY NATURE IS ALSO
GOING TO BE REMOVED.
TO BE REMOVED. SO I
BELIEVE IN ALL THREE
SO I BELIEVE IN ALL THREE
COUNTS, IT'S CLEAR, IN MY VIEW,
THAT THE CAPABILITIES OF THE
IRANIANS TO GO AHEAD WITH THEIR
ORIGINAL IDEAS HAS BEEN STOPPED
ORIGINAL IDEAS HAS BEEN
STOPPED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
BY THIS AGREEMENT. >>
Woodruff: THIS IS A STORY
>> Woodruff: THIS IS A STORY
THAT'S GOT AN LOT OF ATTENTION
IN THE UNITED STATES THIS WEEK
AND I'M SURE IN ISRAEL AS WELL,
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTING
THAT IRAN WILL BE ABLE TO USE
THAT IRAN WILL BE ABLE TO
USE ITS OWN INSPECTORS.
ITS OWN INSPECTORS. THEY
HAVE A SIDE DEAL WITH THE
THEY HAVE A SIDE DEAL WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY WHERE IRANIAN INSPECTORS
WILL BE IN CHARGE OF LOOKING AT
THE MILITARY SITE, THE SO-CALLED
THE MILITARY SITE, THE
SO-CALLED PARCHIN SITE.
PARCHIN SITE. THE
ARGUMENT IS THIS IS A BIG
THE ARGUMENT IS THIS IS A BIG
LOOPHOLE IN THE AGREEMENT.
HOW DO YOU SEE IT?
HOW DO YOU SEE IT? >> THIS
IS AN AGREEMENT WHICH IS
>> THIS IS AN AGREEMENT WHICH
IS A SECRET AGREEMENT REACHED
A SECRET AGREEMENT REACHED
BETWEEN THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF
THE I.A.E.A. WITH THE CIVILLISM
THE I.A.E.A. WITH THE
CIVILLISM MEDICATION OF THE
MEDICATION OF THE
NONPROLIFERATION TREATY.
NONPROLIFERATION TREATY. THE
DIRECTOR OF THIS AGENCY IS
THE DIRECTOR OF THIS AGENCY IS
NOT ONLY A VETERAN IN THIS FIELD
OF DISARMMENT, HE'S BEEN HIGHLY
REGARDED AND HE HAS IMPECCABLE
REGARDED AND HE HAS
IMPECCABLE CREDENTIALS.
CREDENTIALS. UP TILL
NOW, ISRAEL HAS
UP TILL NOW, ISRAEL HAS
RESPECTED HIM AND HIS JUDGMENTS
AND I THINK WE SHOULD WAIT AND
SEE HOW THE ULTIMATE PROCESS OF
SEE HOW THE ULTIMATE PROCESS
OF THE NEGOTIATIONS HE IS NOW
THE NEGOTIATIONS HE IS NOW
CONDUCTING WITH THE IRANIANS AND
CONDUCTING WITH THE IRANIANS
AND THE OUTCOME OF THESE
THE OUTCOME OF THESE
NEGOTIATIONS AT THE END OF THIS
YEAR, HOW HE WILL BE SATISFIED
WITH THE ARRANGEMENTS THAT HE'S
SETTING UP IN ORDER TO MONITOR
SETTING UP IN ORDER TO
MONITOR THESE ACTIVITIES.
THESE ACTIVITIES. >>
Woodruff: EPHRAIM HALEVY,
>> Woodruff: EPHRAIM HALEVY,
YOU'VE ALSO SAID CLEARLY THAT
YOU EXPECT IRAN TO TRY TO CHEAT
YOU EXPECT IRAN TO TRY TO
CHEAT ON THIS AGREEMENT.
ON THIS AGREEMENT. WHY
SHOULD THAT BE ACCEPTABLE TO
WHY SHOULD THAT BE ACCEPTABLE
TO THE REST OF THE WORLD?
THE REST OF THE WORLD? >>
IT IS NOT ACCEPTABLE TO THE
>> IT IS NOT ACCEPTABLE
TO THE REST OF THE WORLD.
REST OF THE WORLD. THAT IS
EXACTLY THE WHOLE POINT
THAT IS EXACTLY THE WHOLE
POINT OF THE AGREEMENT.
OF THE AGREEMENT. WHEREAS
WHEN THE UNITED STATES
WHEREAS WHEN THE UNITED STATES
NEGOTIATED WITH THE SOVIET
UNION, THE CODE WORD WHICH WAS
USED BY PRESIDENT REAGAN AND
SECRETARY SCHULTZ WAS TRUST AND
SECRETARY SCHULTZ WAS
TRUST AND VERIFY.
VERIFY. THIS TIME,
IT IS MISTRUST AND
THIS TIME, IT IS
MISTRUST AND VERIFY.
VERIFY. THERE IS GOING TO BE A
THERE IS GOING TO BE A
VERIFICATION SYSTEM IN PLACE
WHICH IS SECOND TO NONE AND HAS
NO PRECEDENT, AND I BELIEVE THAT
IF THE IRANIANS ARE GOING TO TRY
AND CHEAT, THERE WILL BE WAYS
AND MEANS OF FINDING THIS OUT.
AND MEANS OF FINDING THIS OUT. I
THINK THAT THE MACHINERY WHICH
I THINK THAT THE MACHINERY WHICH
IS GOING TO BE PUT IN PLACE
WHICH, BY THE WAY, WILL BE
SUPPORTED FULLY BY THE UNITED
STATES, WITHOUT WHICH THIS COULD
NOT ACTUALLY BE IMPLEMENTED,
WILL NOT BE IN PLACE IF THE
AGREEMENT IS SCUTTLED BY
AGREEMENT IS SCUTTLED
BY CONGRESS.
CONGRESS. >> Woodruff:
FINALLY, HOW
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, HOW
DIFFICULT IS IT FOR YOU TO
SUPPORT THIS AGREEMENT WHEN YOUR
SUPPORT THIS AGREEMENT WHEN
YOUR PRIME MINISTER, WHEN THE
PRIME MINISTER, WHEN THE
MAJORITY OF ISRAELI PUBLIC
OPINION, WE'RE TOLD, OPPOSES IT?
>> FIRS ALL, THERE HAS BEEN
>> FIRS ALL, THERE HAS BEEN NO
REAL PUBLIC DEBATE IN ISRAEL
NO REAL PUBLIC DEBATE
IN ISRAEL ON THIS.
ON THIS. OUR EQUIVALENT
OF THE UNITED
OUR EQUIVALENT OF THE UNITED
STATES CONGRESS HAS ONLY
STATES CONGRESS HAS
ONLY DISCUSSED IT ONCE.
DISCUSSED IT ONCE. I THINK
THERE IS AN ATTEMPT HERE
I THINK THERE IS AN ATTEMPT HERE
TO STIFLE PUBLIC DISCUSSION.
I'M NOT ALONE IN THIS VIEW.
THERE ARE OTHERS WHO ARE
THINKING LIKEWISE, AS I AM.
THINKING LIKEWISE, AS I AM. ONE
OF THEM IS THE FORMER HEAD
ONE OF THEM IS THE FORMER HEAD
OF THE ISRAELI ATOMIC ENERGY
COMMISSION, A HIGHLY REGARDED
GENERAL, A MAN WHO LED HIS
BATTALION IN 1967 AND OTHERS
LIKE THE HEAD OF R.&D. OF THE
ISRAELI DEFENSE ESTABLISHMENT
FOR MANY YEARS, AN AIR FORCE
FOR MANY YEARS, AN
AIR FORCE GENERAL.
GENERAL. IN THIN THE
YOM KIPUR WAR, WE DT
IN THIN THE YOM KIPUR WAR, WE
DT WANT ANOTHER IN REVERSE.
WANT ANOTHER IN REVERSE.
>> Woodruff: WE THANK YOU
>> Woodruff: WE
THANK YOU TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. >> GOOD EVENING.
NEXT WE WRAP UP OUR WEEK-LONG
SERIES: "RETHINKING COLLEGE:
CLOSING THE GRADUATION GAP," BY
CLOSING THE GRADUATION GAP,"
BY VISITING WITH A UNIVERSITY
VISITING WITH A UNIVERSITY
PRESIDENT WHO SAYS THE NATION'S
PUBLIC RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES ARE
FAILING TO MEET THE NEEDS OF
FAILING TO MEET THE NEEDS
OF LOW-INCOME STUDENTS.
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS. HARI
SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
WE DOUBLED OUR NUMBER OF
GRADUATES AND WENT FROM 9,000 TO
GRADUATES AND WENT FROM
9,000 TO 20,000 GRADUATES.
20,000 GRADUATES. >>
Sreenivasan: IN THE
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE
RAREFIED WORLD OF HIGHER
EDUCATION WHERE EXCLUSIVE
SCHOOLS CATER TO ONLY THE VERY
BEST STUDENTS, MICHAEL CROW IS
BEST STUDENTS, MICHAEL CROW
IS BLAZING A NEW PATH, AN
BLAZING A NEW PATH,
AN ANTI-ELITIST.
ANTI-ELITIST. >> IT GOES
BACK TO OUR ADMISSION
>> IT GOES BACK TO OUR
ADMISSION STANDARDS.
STANDARDS. IF YOU
HAVE BETTER THAN A B
IF YOU HAVE BETTER THAN A B
AVERAGE OVERALL, THEN YOU'RE
AVERAGE OVERALL, THEN
YOU'RE ADMITTED.
ADMITTED. >> Sreenivasan: AS THE
>> Sreenivasan: AS THE
PRESIDENT OF ARIZONA STATE
UNIVERSITY, CROW HAS
DRAMATICALLY INCREASED THE
STUDENT POPULATION TO 84,000
STUDENTS, MAKING IT THE LARGEST
UNIVERSITY IN AMERICA.
UNDER CROW, THE NUMBER OF
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS HAS SOARED,
ENROLLMENT OF BLACKS AND LATINOS
HAS DOUBLED, AND A.S.U. HAS
ACCOMPLISHED THIS DESPITE THE
LARGEST FUNDING CUTS FROM ANY
STATE LEGISLATURE IN THE
STATE LEGISLATURE
IN THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. >> THE
SPECIFIC FRESHMAN
>> THE SPECIFIC
FRESHMAN EXPERIENCE --
EXPERIENCE -- >>
Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT
>> Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT
CROW'S MANTRA IS A PUBLIC
UNIVERSITY SHOULD BE JUDGED BY
NOT WHO IT TURNS DOWN BUT WHO IT
NOT WHO IT TURNS DOWN
BUT WHO IT ADMITS.
ADMITS. >> PUBLIC
RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES
>> PUBLIC RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES
HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY
EXCLUSIVE AND INCREASINGLY
EXPENSIVE, BELIEVING THEY NEEDED
EXPENSIVE, BELIEVING THEY
NEEDED TO EMULATE THE PRIVATE
TO EMULATE THE PRIVATE
UNIVERSITIES OR REPLICATE THEM.
WE'RE SAYING IT'S TIME TO
INNOVATE AND DEVELOP A NEW KIND
INNOVATE AND DEVELOP A NEW
KIND OF AMERICAN UNIVERSITY.
OF AMERICAN UNIVERSITY. >>
IT'S ALL ABOUT ATTITUDE --
>> IT'S ALL ABOUT ATTITUDE --
>> Sreenivasan: THAT MEANS
BREAKING DOWN TRADITIONAL
ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS.
ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS. THE
SCHOOL SLASHED MILLIONS OF
THE SCHOOL SLASHED MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN ADMINISTRATIVE COST
BYS MERGING ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS
AND ELIMINATING SUPPORT STAFF.
CUTS THAT HELP FUND LOW-INCOME
STUDENTS AND ENCOURAGE CROSS
DISCIPLINARY LEARNING.
>> WE HAVE 15 NEW
TRANSDISCIPLINARY SCHOOLS,
SCHOOL OF EARTH AND SpaceX
PLOARGS, THE COUNTRY'S FIRST
SCHOOL OF SUSTAINABILITY, A
SCHOOL OF SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION,
A SCHOOL OF TRANSBORDER STUDIES,
A NEW RANGE OF WAYS WE APPROACH
A NEW RANGE OF WAYS
WE APPROACH PROBLEMS.
PROBLEMS. WE'VE BUILT
THE BUILDING TO
WE'VE BUILT THE BUILDING
TO BREAK DOWN DISCIPLINES.
BREAK DOWN DISCIPLINES.
WE BLOW UP DEPARTMENTS.
WE BLOW UP DEPARTMENTS. THIS
IS CALLED INTERDISCIPLINARY
THIS IS CALLED INTERDISCIPLINARY
SCIENCE BUILDING 4.
SCIENCE BUILDING 4. >>
Sreenivasan: YOU'RE GETTING
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE GETTING
THE PICTURES FROM MARS AND THE
STUDENTS ARE WORKING WITH NAY IS
STUDENTS ARE WORKING
WITH NAY IS A'S J.P.L.
A'S J.P.L. >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. CHRISTOPHER
IS WORKING OUT DATA
CHRISTOPHER IS WORKING
OUT DATA SETS.
SETS. WE HAVE THE
LUNAR ORBITER AND
WE HAVE THE LUNAR ORBITER AND
PEOPLE ARE DOING ROBOTS AND
DRONES AND NEW WAYS OF LOOKING
DRONES AND NEW WAYS
OF LOOKING AT THIS.
AT THIS. >>
Sreenivasan: WHAT CROW
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT CROW
CARES ABOUT IS MAKING THE
UNIVERSITY ACCESSIBLE TO
UNIVERSITY ACCESSIBLE
TO LOW-INCOME FAMILIES.
LOW-INCOME FAMILIES. BY
EXPANDING THE STUDENT
BY EXPANDING THE STUDENT
POPULATION FROM 55,000 TO
84,000, THE UNIVERSITY IS ABLE
TO USE MONEY FROM FULL-PAYING
STUDENTS TO RECRUIT MORE WHO
STUDENTS TO RECRUIT MORE
WHO NEED FINANCIAL AID.
NEED FINANCIAL AID. HOW
DID YOU INCREASE ACCESS
HOW DID YOU INCREASE ACCESS
ESPECIALLY TO LOW-INCOME
ESPECIALLY TO
LOW-INCOME FIEWNTS.
FIEWNTS. >> TALENT IS
A FUNCTION OF YOUR
>> TALENT IS A FUNCTION OF
YOUR ABILITY, YOUR DRIVE AS AN
ABILITY, YOUR DRIVE AS AN
INDIVIDUAL, NOT YOUR PARENTS'
INDIVIDUAL, NOT YOUR
PARENTS' INCOME.
INCOME. WE'VE FOUND
THE TALENT WHEREVER
WE'VE FOUND THE TALENT
WHEREVER IT IS.
IT IS. WE HAVE A NEW
TOOL WE'RE ABOUT
WE HAVE A NEW TOOL WE'RE
ABOUT TO LAUNCH CALLED ME 3.
TO LAUNCH CALLED ME 3. >>
Sreenivasan: CROW HOPES THE
>> Sreenivasan: CROW HOPES THE
ME 3 TOOL WILL ENTICE HIGH
SCHOOL STUDENTS FROM POOR
COMMUNITIES BY GIVING THEM A
COMMUNITIES BY GIVING
THEM A VIRTUAL IDENTITY.
VIRTUAL IDENTITY. >>
THIS IS THE ME 3 TOOL.
>> THIS IS THE ME 3 TOOL. WE
HAVE A DESCRIPTION OF WHAT'S
WE HAVE A DESCRIPTION OF WHAT'S
INVOLVED IN THE MAJOR IN TERMS
OF CAREER OUTLOOK, JOB OUTLOOK.
>> Sreenivasan: FREDERIC COREY
WHO OVERSEES THE STUDENT ADVISOR
PROGRAM SAYS ONLINE TECHNOLOGIES
CAN GET STUDENTS IN THE DOOR AND
CAN GET STUDENTS IN THE
DOOR AND KEEP THEM THERE.
KEEP THEM THERE. >>
WITHDRAWAL IS ONE OF THE
>> WITHDRAWAL IS ONE OF THE
BIGGEST EXPENSES WE CAN FACE
BIGGEST EXPENSES WE
CAN FACE EVERY DAY.
EVERY DAY. WE'RE LOOKING
AT THIS, IF I'M
WE'RE LOOKING AT THIS, IF I'M
DOING A SWEEPING LOOK, I CAN SEE
WHAT PERCENTAGE OF STUDENTS IN
EACH COLLEGE ARE OFF TRACK.
>> Sreenivasan: STUDENT
RECORDS ARE USED TO PREDICT
RECORDS ARE USED TO
PREDICT SUCCESS.
SUCCESS. >> YOU HAVE
TO TAKE THE COURSES
>> YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE COURSES
OF DIAGNOSTIC SUCCESS.
OF DIAGNOSTIC SUCCESS. IF
YOU GO OFF TRACK TWICE, YOU
IF YOU GO OFF TRACK TWICE, YOU
HAVE TO PICK A NEW MAJOR.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S WHAT
MAPPED TO ROGER WHO SWITCHED
MAJOR FROM AXE CHIEWRL SCIENCE
TO COMPUTER ENGINEERING AFTER
RECEIVING SEVERAL ONLINE ALERTS.
>> I ACTUALLY GOT MULTIPLE
>> I ACTUALLY GOT
MULTIPLE E-MAILS.
E-MAILS. THEY MADE
IT CLEAR THIS MIGHT
THEY MADE IT CLEAR THIS MIGHT
NOT BE RIGHT FOR YOU BECAUSE
THIS IS A CRITICAL COURSE.
THIS IS A CRITICAL COURSE. I
ADMIT I WAS MAD AT FIRST.
I ADMIT I WAS MAD AT FIRST. >>
SOMETIMES IT'S A PROCESS OF
>> SOMETIMES IT'S A
PROCESS OF GRIEVING.
GRIEVING. YOU COME TO
TERMS WITH THE FACT
YOU COME TO TERMS WITH THE FACT
THAT NOW I NEED TO GIVE UP THAT
IDENTITY AND WORK WITH SOMEBODY
IDENTITY AND WORK WITH
SOMEBODY ON A NEW IDENTITY.
ON A NEW IDENTITY. THES>>
THESE ARE THE LABS.
THES>> THESE ARE THE LABS. WE
NEED TO DO MORE TO EMPOWER
WE NEED TO DO MORE TO EMPOWER
THOSE INDIVIDUALS TO BE
SUCCESSFUL AND EMBRACE HOW
TECHNOLOGY CAN BE OUR FRIEND.
WE'RE TRYING TO FIND A WAY TO
ENHANCE TECH -- TECHNOLOGY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PUSH FOR
TECHNOLOGY IN A LARGER STUDENT
BODY LED SOME TO QUESTION THE
QUALITY OF LEARNING AT A.S.U.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS A
>> I DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS
A MODEL FOR A NEW AMERICAN
MODEL FOR A NEW AMERICAN
UNIVERSITY, FOR THOSE AMERICAN
UNIVERSITIES THAT STILL LIKE TO
UNIVERSITIES THAT STILL LIKE
TO MAINTAIN THEIR PRESTIGE.
MAINTAIN THEIR PRESTIGE. >>
Sreenivasan: KEITH LAW IS A
>> Sreenivasan: KEITH LAW IS A
PROFESSOR OF MERCED COLLEGE IN
PROFESSOR OF MERCED
COLLEGE IN CALIFORNIA.
CALIFORNIA. HE SAYS
A.C.U.'S QUICK EXPANSION
HE SAYS A.C.U.'S QUICK EXPANSION
AND PARTICULAYRL MASSIVE ONLINE
CURRICULUM COULD DAMAGE THE
CURRICULUM COULD DAMAGE
THE UNIVERSITY STATUS.
UNIVERSITY STATUS. >>
I THINK ARIZONA STATE
>> I THINK ARIZONA STATE
UNIVERSITY IS RISKING SLIPPING
INTO BECOMING A DIPLOMA MILL
THAT GRANTS GRADUATION AND
GRANTS DIPLOMAS TO STUDENTS
WITHOUT REALLY GUARANTEEING THEM
AN EXCELLENT EDUCATION AND I
THINK THAT'S GOING TO ERODE THE
VALUE OF THEIR DEGREES DOWN THE
VALUE OF THEIR DEGREES
DOWN THE ROAD.
ROAD. >> Sreenivasan: DESPITE
>> Sreenivasan: DESPITE CRITIC,
CROW SEES INNOVATION AND
CRITIC, CROW SEES INNOVATION AND
ONLINE TECHNOLOGIES AS RESHAPING
THE ENTIRE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM.
>> TECHNOLOGY ALLOWS BOTH
THROUGH COURSES AT A HIGHER
RAPIDITY, MOVE THROUGH THEM AS
RAPIDITY, MOVE THROUGH THEM
AS YOU'VE MASTERED THEM.
YOU'VE MASTERED THEM.
WHAT LL TWIHAT MEAN FOR
TECHNOLOGIES WHEN THEY SAY
HERE'S A BASIC CONCEPT IN
HERE'S A BASIC CONCEPT
IN PSYCHOLOGY.
PSYCHOLOGY. YOU MIGHT
BE AN ENGINEERING
YOU MIGHT BE AN ENGINEERING
MAJOR AND MIGHT NOT TAKE THE
FULL PSYCHOLOGY COURSE BUT MIGHT
TAKE A FEW COURSES, PLGT 25
TAKE A FEW COURSES,
PLGT 25 CREDITS.
CREDITS. >>
Sreenivasan: THE MODEL
>> Sreenivasan: THE MODEL
MIGHT BE WATCHED CLOSELY AS
AMERICAN COLLEGES FACE GROWING
ENROLLMENT FROM LESS TRADITIONAL
ENROLLMENT FROM LESS
TRADITIONAL STUDENTS.
STUDENTS. IN PHOENIX,
HARI SREENIVASAN,
IN PHOENIX, HARI
SREENIVASAN, PBS "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: DONALD TRUMP IS
HOLDING ON TO HIS LEAD IN THE
G.O.P. PRESIDENTIAL FIELD.
HOW ARE THE OTHER CANDIDATES
HOW ARE THE OTHER
CANDIDATES ADJUSTING?
ADJUSTING? THE CLINTON
EMAIL SAGA SHOWS NO
THE CLINTON EMAIL SAGA SHOWS
NO SIGNS OF LETTING UP.
SIGNS OF LETTING UP. AND
FORMER PRESIDENT JIMMY
AND FORMER PRESIDENT JIMMY
CARTER AND HIS VERY PUBLIC
BATTLE WITH CANCER.
BATTLE WITH CANCER. THAT
BRINGS US TO THE ANALYSIS
THAT BRINGS US TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND GERSON.
OF SHIELDS AND GERSON. THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "WASHINGTON POST"
COLUMNIST MICHAEL GERSON.
DAVID BROOKS IS AWAY.
EWELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
EWELCOME TO YOU
BOTH. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >>
Woodruff: SO LET'S TALK
>> Woodruff: SO LET'S
TALK ABOUT DONALD TRUMP.
ABOUT DONALD TRUMP. AS WE
SAID, HE'S HOLDING UP IN
AS WE SAID, HE'S HOLDING
UP IN THE POLLS.
THE POLLS. MARK, NOW
THAT WE'RE A COUPLE OF
MARK, NOW THAT WE'RE A COUPLE
OF MONTHS INTO THIS, DO WE KNOW
MONTHS INTO THIS, DO WE KNOW
MORE ABOUT WHO DONALD TRUMP IS
AS A CANDIDATE, ABOUT WHAT HE
AS A CANDIDATE, ABOUT
WHAT HE REALLY BELIEVES?
REALLY BELIEVES? DO WE
UNDERSTAND BETTER WHAT'S
DO WE UNDERSTAND BETTER
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE?
GOING ON HERE? >> I'M
NOT SURE, JUDY, TO BE
>> I'M NOT SURE, JUDY, TO BE
VERY FRANK ABOUT IT, HOW MUCH WE
VERY FRANK ABOUT IT, HOW
MUCH WE KNOW ABOUT HIM.
KNOW ABOUT HIM. WE KNOW
WHAT HE'S PUBLICLY
WE KNOW WHAT HE'S
PUBLICLY EMPHASIZING.
EMPHASIZING. I MEAN,
THERE'S A STRONG SORT OF
I MEAN, THERE'S A STRONG SORT OF
HOWARD BEHL CAST, THE ANCHOR IN
"NETWORK" PLAYED BY PETER FINCH
WHO COINED THE PHRASE "I'M MAD
AS HELL AND I'M NOT GOING TO
TAKE THIS ANYMORE," THERE IS A
TAKE THIS ANYMORE," THERE
IS A LOT OF THAT TO HIM.
LOT OF THAT TO HIM. HE IS
PARTICULARLY A REPUBLICAN
HE IS PARTICULARLY A REPUBLICAN
ELECTORATE BUT ELECTORATE
GENERAL WHO THINKS THE COUNTRY
SHEDDED IN THE WRONG DIRECTION,
THAT THEIR CHILDREN'S FUTURE
WON'T BE AS BRIGHT AS THEIR OWN
AND THE BASE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CHANGES IN THE COUNTRY, IT'S
RACIAL COMPOSITION AND SOCIAL
MORES, ACCEPTANCE OF SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE, THERE IS AN ANGER AND
DONALD TRUMP IS ADDRESSING THAT
IN A FLAMBOYANT WAY THAT IS
IN A FLAMBOYANT WAY THAT
IS BEHOLDENNED TO NOBODY,
BEHOLDENNED TO NOBODY,
SEEMINGLY, NO INTEREST GROUPS
EXCEPT HIS OWN INTERESTS.
EXCEPT HIS OWN INTERESTS. SO
I'M NOT SURE, THERE IS A LOT
SO I'M NOT SURE, THERE IS A LOT
OF PERCEPTIONS THERE BUT I'M NOT
OF PERCEPTIONS THERE BUT I'M
NOT SURE THERE'S A CORE.
SURE THERE'S A CORE. >>
Woodruff: DO YOU FEEL,
>> Woodruff: DO YOU FEEL,
MICHAEL, HE HAS A BETTER HANDLE
ON WHAT HE'S TRYING TO SAY.
>> IT WOULD SEEM HIS FIRST
LICYPO INITIATIVE, HE SET OUT AN
IMMIGRATION POLICY, THIN, SIX
PAGES, NOT VERY DETAILED, BUT IT
PAGES, NOT VERY DETAILED, BUT
IT INCLUDED CHANGES TO THE
INCLUDED CHANGES TO THE
PROTECTIONS OF THE 14th
AMENDMENT ON BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP AND PASS
CITIZENSHIP AND
PASS DEPORTATIONS.
DEPORTATIONS. SO THIS IS
A PERSON, TRUMP, WHO,
SO THIS IS A PERSON, TRUMP, WHO,
THREE YEARS AGO -- WHICH IS NOT
VERY LONG AGO -- CRITICIZED MITT
ROMNEY'S SELF-DEPORTATION PLAN
AS M MONIACL AND MEAN-SPIRITED,
AND GOING TO MASS DEPORTATION.
THIS CROSSES LINES IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, QUITE SERIOUS
AND I THINK COULD DAMAGE THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY FOR DECADES TO
COME TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
COME TO BE ASSOCIATED
WITH THIS APPROACH.
APPROACH. >> DOES HE
EXPLAIN HOW HE'S MADE
>> DOES HE EXPLAIN HOW
HE'S MADE THAT TURN?
THAT TURN? >> THERE'S
NO EXPLANATION.
>> THERE'S NO EXPLANATION.
WHENEVER HE'S CAUGHT IN CHANGES,
HE DOUBLES DOWN AND HIS SUPPORT
SEEMS TO STAY, YOU KNOW, THE
SEEMS TO STAY, YOU
KNOW, THE SAME.
SAME. HE IS, IN A
MOMENT, WHERE THERE
HE IS, IN A MOMENT, WHERE THERE
IS A LOT OF PART ZEN ANGER, A
LOT OF CANDIDATES, 18 OR SO
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES IN A FIELD
WHERE HE CAN STAND OUT, AND HE
WHERE HE CAN STAND OUT, AND
HE PROBABLY HAS A CEILING OF
PROBABLY HAS A
CEILING OF SUPPORT.
SUPPORT. I DON'T THINK
HE'S GOING TO GET
I DON'T THINK HE'S GOING TO GET
THE REPUBLICAN NOMINATION, BUT
HE'S 20% IN THE POLLS AND
DRIVING THE DEBATE ON
IMMIGRATION IN VERY DANGEROUS
IMMIGRATION IN VERY
DANGEROUS WAYS.
WAYS. >> Woodruff:
SO, MARK, HE'S
>> Woodruff: SO, MARK, HE'S
MAKING THESE STATEMENTS TO GET A
MAKING THESE STATEMENTS TO GET
A LOT OF ATTENTION, AS MICHAEL
LOT OF ATTENTION,
AS MICHAEL SAID.
SAID. HE CAME OUT
THIS WEEK WITH HIS
HE CAME OUT THIS WEEK WITH
HIS POSITION ON IMMIGRATION.
POSITION ON IMMIGRATION. WHAT
EFFECT DOES THAT HAVE ON
WHAT EFFECT DOES THAT HAVE ON
THE OTHER CANDIDATES ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE, THE OTHER 16 OF
REPUBLICAN SIDE, THE
OTHER 16 OF THEM?
THEM? >> WHEN THE
CENTRAL ISSUE IN THE
>> WHEN THE CENTRAL ISSUE IN
THE CAMPAIGN IS SET BY THE
CAMPAIGN IS SET BY THE
FRONTRUNNER, THEN THAT IS
PERCEIVED AS CONTRIBUTING TO
THAT FRONTRUNNER BEING THE
FRONTRUNNER, WHETHER ANTI-BUSING
WITH GEORGE WALLACE, WHETHER
OPPOSITION TO THE IRAQ WAR WITH
BARACK OBAMA IN 2008, THERE'S A
NATURAL GRAVITATIONAL PULL TO
SAY I'VE GOT TO CLOSE THE GAP
BETWEEN THEM, A ME, TOO-ISM.
WE'VE SEEN THAT CONSPICUOUSLY IN
THE CASE OF SCOTT WALKER, THE
GOVERNOR OF WISCONSIN WHO SEEMS
GOVERNOR OF WISCONSIN WHO
SEEMS TO BE SHADOWING TRUMP'S
TO BE SHADOWING TRUMP'S
PHILOSOPHICAL MOVEMENT.
PHILOSOPHICAL MOVEMENT. AT THE
SAME TIME, JUDY, LET'S BE
AT THE SAME TIME, JUDY, LET'S BE
BLUNT ABOUT THIS, THERE'S A MEAN
SPIRITEDNESS IN THE ELECTORATE
SPIRITEDNESS IN THE
ELECTORATE HE'S APPEALING TO.
HE'S APPEALING TO. WHEN THE
CNN POLL ASKS WHICH OF
WHEN THE CNN POLL ASKS WHICH
OF ALL CANDIDATES DO YOU AGREE
ALL CANDIDATES DO YOU AGREE
WITH, 4-1 MARGIN, THE REPUBLICAN
VOTERS SAY DONALD TRUMP.
DONALD TRUMP, WHATEVER ELSE HE
DONALD TRUMP, WHATEVER ELSE
HE IS, HIS POSITION IS
IS, HIS POSITION IS
ANTI-IMMIGRANT OVERALL.
IT IS DEVASTATING TO THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, MICHAEL IS
RIGHT, IN THE LONG RUN BECAUSE
ASIAN VOTERS, THE FASTEST
GROWING MINORITY IN THE COUNTRY
WHO SUPPORTED GEORGE H. W. BUSH
WHEN HE LOST BADLY IN '92 VOTED
EVEN MORE DEMOCRATIC THAN --
EVEN MORE DEMOCRATIC THAN
-- >> 67% OF ASIANS --
>> 67% OF ASIANS -- >>
Woodruff: HURTING IN THE
>> Woodruff: HURTING IN THE
LONG RUN, BUT IN THE SHORT RUN
IT'S HELPING HIM WITH THE
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY VOTERS,
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
VOTERS, RIGHT?
RIGHT? >> WELL, THERE
ARE MEMBERS, I
>> WELL, THERE ARE MEMBERS, I
COMPLETELY AGREE, WHO WANT TO BE
PALE VERSIONS OF TRUMP, WHICH I
THINK IS HURTING THEM AND THE
THINK IS HURTING
THEM AND THE PARTY.
PARTY. WALKER HAS
BEEN EVERYWHERE ON
WALKER HAS BEEN EVERYWHERE ON
ALL SIDES OF THE BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP ISSUE AND REALLY
SHOWN HE'S NOT PLAYING IN THE
BIG LEAGUES, HE'S NOT PREPARED
OR THOUGHTFUL IN THESE AREAS.
BUT YOU HAVE RUBIO AND BUSH WHO,
BUT YOU HAVE RUBIO AND BUSH
WHO, EVENTUALLY, ONE OF THEM, I
EVENTUALLY, ONE OF THEM, I
BELIEVE, WILL EMERGE AS THE
ANTI-TRUMP, AND MAKE A STRONG
ARGUMENT TON OTHER SIDE.
ARGUMENT TON OTHER
SIDE. ON IMMIGRATION.
ON IMMIGRATION. >> ON
IMMIGRATION AS A WHOLE AND
>> ON IMMIGRATION AS A WHOLE
AND HIS APPROACH TO POLITICS.
HIS APPROACH TO POLITICS. IT'S
GOING TO BE VERY IMPORTANT.
IT'S GOING TO BE VERY IMPORTANT.
WHAT TRUMP IS APPEALING TO HAS
MORE OF A FEEL OF EUROPEAN
RIGHT-NGWI POLITICS.
THE NATIONAL FRONT.
THE NATIONAL FRONT. HIGHLY
NATIONALISTIC, RESENTMENT
HIGHLY NATIONALISTIC, RESENTMENT
OF FOREIGNERS, WE HAVE BEEN
BETRAYED BY OUR LEADERS.
THERE IS SOME DEEP AND
DISTURBING THINGS THAT ARE BEING
DISTURBING THINGS THAT ARE
BEING APPEALED TO HERE.
APPEALED TO HERE. THERE IS
ALWAYS POPULOUS TRENDS.
THERE IS ALWAYS POPULOUS TRENDS.
GOOD LEADERS TAKE THOSE TRENDS
AND DIRECT TEMH IN WAYS THAT
AND DIRECT TEMH IN WAYS
THAT SERVE THE PUBLIC GOOD.
SERVE THE PUBLIC GOOD. BAD
LEADERS FEED THOSE TRENDS TO
BAD LEADERS FEED THOSE TRENDS
TO SERVE THEMSELVES, AND THAT'S
SERVE THEMSELVES, AND THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT TRUMP IS DOING.
>> I JUST POINT OUT, JUDY, 25%
IN A 17-COUNTY FIELD IS VERY
IN A 17-COUNTY FIELD
IS VERY IMPRESSIVE.
IMPRESSIVE. 25% IN A
THREE-WAY RACE, YOU'RE
25% IN A THREE-WAY
RACE, YOU'RE A LOSER.
A LOSER. I AGREE WITH
MICHAEL THAT BOTH
I AGREE WITH MICHAEL THAT BOTH
RUBIO AND JEB BUSH, EACH IS
WAITING FOR THE OTHER TO GO
FIRST IN ATTACKING TRUMP BECAUSE
THEY WANT TO BE THE REMAINDER
MAN AGAINST DONALD TRUMP BECAUSE
THEY DON'T THINK DONALD TRUMP IN
THE FINAL ANALYSIS IS A MAJORITY
THE FINAL ANALYSIS IS
A MAJORITY CANDIDATE.
CANDIDATE. WHAT THEY
RISK IS WHAT TRUMP ISO
WHAT THEY RISK IS WHAT TRUMP ISO
ODIOUS AND OFFENSIVE THAT IT
ALMOST IS SEEN AS A MORAL SUR
ALMOST IS SEEN AS A MORAL
SUR SURRENDER ON YOUR PART,
SURRENDER ON YOUR PART,
ULTIMATELY, IN THE GENERAL
ELECTION THAT YOU DIDN'T STAND
UP TO HIM AND I THINK THAT'S A
REAL RISK ANYBODY RUNS BY NOT
CONFRONTING HIM AT THIS POINT.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO TURN US
TO THE OTHER PARTY, TO HILLARY
TO THE OTHER PARTY, TO
HILLARY CLINTON, MICHAEL.
CLINTON, MICHAEL. THE EMAIL
CONTROVERSY, THERE WAS
THE EMAIL CONTROVERSY, THERE WAS
MORE EVIDENCE THIS WEEK THERE
ARE REAL INVESTIGATIONS GOING
ON, QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER
THESE E-MAILS, IF THEY WEREN'T
MARKED CONFIDENTIAL TO BEGIN
WITH, THEY SHOULD HAVE BEEN.
SHE'S TAKING THIS ON, HAD A NEWS
CONFERENCE, TALKING TO REPORTERS
CONFERENCE, TALKING TO
REPORTERS ABOUT IT.
ABOUT IT. DO YOU
SEE ANY SIGN SHE'S
DO YOU SEE ANY SIGN SHE'S
GETTING AHEAD OF THIS ISSUE?
IS SHE OVERWHELMED BY IT?
IS SHE OVERWHELMED BY
IT? WHAT DO YOU SEE?
WHAT DO YOU SEE? >>
NO, THESE EVENTS ARE
>> NO, THESE EVENTS ARE
UNDERMINING HER MAIN ARGUMENT
THIS IS SOMEHOW A POLITICAL
THIS IS SOMEHOW A
POLITICAL ATTACK.
ATTACK. YOU HAVE
THE FEDERAL JUDGE
YOU HAVE THE FEDERAL JUDGE
QUESTIONING HER CONDUCT THIS
WEEK, THE F.B.I., THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY, THIS IS NOT A
COMMUNITY, THIS IS
NOT A PARTISAN DEAL.
PARTISAN DEAL. THIS WILL
BE DETERMINED BY REAL
THIS WILL BE DETERMINED
BY REAL INVESTIGATIONS.
INVESTIGATIONS. SO I
THINK THAT'S WHY.
SO I THINK THAT'S WHY. AND
YOU CAN SEE THE TROUBLE
AND YOU CAN SEE THE TROUBLE
SHE'S IN FROM THE DEFENSES SHE'S
SHE'S IN FROM THE
DEFENSES SHE'S MADE.
MADE. THERE'S NOW
BEEN THREE OF THEM.
THERE'S NOW BEEN THREE OF THEM.
THE FIRST ONE IS THERE WERE NO
CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS, SHE SAID
CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS,
SHE SAID THAT, RIGHT.
THAT, RIGHT. THEN SHE
SAID, THERE WAS NOTHING
THEN SHE SAID, THERE WAS NOTHING
CLASSIFIED AT THE TIME THAT
TURNED OUT TO BE UNTRUE.
TURNED OUT TO BE UNTRUE. NOW
SHE SAID SHE DID NOT SEND
NOW SHE SAID SHE DID NOT
SEND MARKED DOCUMENTS, OKAY.
MARKED DOCUMENTS, OKAY. WHEN
YOU TAKE -- WHEN YOU GET
WHEN YOU TAKE -- WHEN YOU GET
TOP SECRET CLEARANCE AND YOU
COMT MITO PROTECTING THIS
MATERIAL, THAT'S NOT THE
MATERIAL, THAT'S
NOT THE STANDARD.
STANDARD. YOU'RE RESPONSIBLE FOR
YOU'RE RESPONSIBLE FOR
NEGLIGENCE, YOU'RE RESPONSIBLE
FOR MISHANDLING OF MATERIAL.
IT'S NOT JUST THE STANDARD, SHE
IT'S NOT JUST THE
STANDARD, SHE SAID.
SAID. SO SHE'S LOST
CONTROL OF EVENTS.
SO SHE'S LOST CONTROL OF EVENTS.
SHE TRIED TO CONTROL THINGS SO
SHE TRIED TO CONTROL THINGS
SO CLOSE BY SAYING I WANT TO
CLOSE BY SAYING I WANT TO
CONTROL MY OWN INFORMATION, I
WANT TO BE ABLE TO DESTROY IT.
SHE CONTROLLED IT IN SUCH A WAY
THAT IT ATTRACTED ATTENTION AND
IS NOW BEYOND HER CONTROL.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE IT?
IT? >> JUDY, THE
"NEW YORK TIMES"
>> JUDY, THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
BROKE THIS STORY SIX MONTHS AGO
ABOUT A PRIVATE SERVER AND QUITE
BLUNTLY WE'VE GONE FROM A TIME
WHEN THE INVESTIGATION APPEARED
TO BE MOTIVATED BY THE
REPUBLICANS ON THE HILL, WITH
THE BENGHAZI STORY AND ALL THE
THE BENGHAZI STORY AND
ALL THE REST OF IT.
REST OF IT. NOW WE
HAVE A FEDERAL JUDGE
NOW WE HAVE A FEDERAL JUDGE
APPOINTED BY BILL CLINTON WHO'S
DIRECTOR OF THE F.B.I., THIS IS
GOING TO BE AROUND FOR MONTHS
AND NO LONGER JUST A PARTISAN
WITCH HUNT, IT'S AN OFFICIAL
INVESTIGATION WITH ALL THE
IMPLICATIONS THAT THAT INVOLVES.
IT'S GOING TO COLOR AND
INFLUENCE HER CAMPAIGN FROM HERE
INFLUENCE HER CAMPAIGN
FROM HERE ON IN.
ON IN. >> Woodruff:
HOW DO YOU THINK
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU
THINK SHE'S HANDLING IT?
SHE'S HANDLING IT? >> I
THINK SHE SHOULD HAVE
>> I THINK SHE SHOULD HAVE
TURNED EVERYTHING OVER RIGHT AT
TURNED EVERYTHING OVER RIGHT
AT THE OUTSET AND SAID I HAVE
THE OUTSET AND SAID I HAVE
NOTHING TO HIDE INCLUDING ME
E-MAILS ABOUT CHELSEA'S WEDDING.
I MEAN, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
I MEAN, I DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE
-- YOU KNOW, HOW PLEASED OR
ELSE -- YOU KNOW, HOW PLEASED OR
DISPLEASED I AM WITH THE GENDER
OF MY GRANDCHILD WHEN IT'S
OF MY GRANDCHILD
WHEN IT'S ANNOUNCED.
ANNOUNCED. YOKNOWU ,
THERE'S NO UP-SIDE FOR
YOKNOWU , THERE'S NO UP-SIDE
FOR HER POLITICALLY.
HER POLITICALLY. >> SHE'S
HAD A REALLY TERRIBLE
>> SHE'S HAD A REALLY TERRIBLE
LAUNCH TO HER CANDIDACY, THERE'S
BEEN A SERIES OF QUESTIONS AND
THINGS SHE'S BEEN DEFENSIVE ON
AND THERE ARE NOW DEMOCRATS
THINKING IN THE BACK OF THEIR
MIND, DO WE NEED A PLAN B.
I THINK THAT'S VERY REAL.
I THINK THAT'S VERY REAL. THIS
HAS GONE FROM A VERY SMALL
THIS HAS GONE FROM A VERY SMALL
CHANCE TO A LARGER CHANCE WHERE
DEMOCRATS ARE SAYING SANDERS
CAN'T CARRY THE BALL INTO THE
ELECTION AND THERE MAY NEED TO
ELECTION AND THERE MAY
NEED TO BE SOMEONE ELSE.
BE SOMEONE ELSE. THERE
IS NO ONE OBVIOUS, TO BE
THERE IS NO ONE
OBVIOUS, TO BE HONEST.
HONEST. I THINK THE
QUESTIONS HAVE NOW
I THINK THE QUESTIONS HAVE NOW
BEEN RAISED IN A SERIOUS WAY.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS A
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS A REPORT
TODAY, MARK AND MICHAEL,
REPORT TODAY, MARK AND MICHAEL,
THAT VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN WAS
ASKING TECHNICAL QUESTIONS ABOUT
MOUNT AGO CAMPAIGN, BUT WE'LL
MOUNT AGO CAMPAIGN,
BUT WE'LL SEE.
SEE. HE'S INDICATED HE'LL MAKE A
HE'S INDICATED HE'LL
MAKE A DECISION.
DECISION. >> JOE BIDEN
LIKE EVERY OTHER
>> JOE BIDEN LIKE EVERY OTHER
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE STILL
DREAMS ABOUT BEING ELECTED
DREAMS ABOUT BEING
ELECTED PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. IT DOESN'T GO AWAY.
IT DOESN'T GO AWAY. IT IS
A LIFE-LONG AFFLICTION OR
IT IS A LIFE-LONG
AFFLICTION OR INSPIRATION.
INSPIRATION. >> Woodruff:
WE SAW THIS WEEK
>> Woodruff: WE SAW THIS WEEK
SOMEONE WHO WAS PRESIDENT
DECADES AGO, FORMER PRESIDENT
JIMMY CARTER, I THINK VERY
GRACEFULLY HANDLED THE BAD NEWS
ABOUT THE MEDICAL HEALTH NEWS HE
GOT IN TERMS OF A DIAGNOSIS OF
CANCER, MELANOMA WHICH SPREAD TO
CANCER, MELANOMA WHICH
SPREAD TO HIS BRAIN.
HIS BRAIN. MARK, THIS
IS SOMEONE WHO'S BEEN
MARK, THIS IS SOMEONE WHO'S BEEN
OUT OF THE WHITE HOUSE FOR 35,
40 YEARS AND, YET, WHAT DO YOU
40 YEARS AND, YET, WHAT
DO YOU MAKE OF THIS?
MAKE OF THIS? QUITE
A REMARKABLE NEWS
QUITE A REMARKABLE NEWS
CONFERENCE YESTERDAY.
>> IT WAS, JUDY.
>> IT WAS, JUDY. WE'RE IN THAT'S
WE'RE IN THAT'S
AGGRESSIVELY SECULAR WHERE
CHURCH MEMBERSHIP IS IN DECLINE,
YET IN THE PAST COUPLE OF MONTHS
WE'VE SEEN TWO EXAMPLES OF THE
SOCIAL VALUE AS WELL AS THE
INDIVIDUAL VALUE OF RELIGIOUS
INDIVIDUAL VALUE OF
RELIGIOUS FAITH.
FAITH. WE SAW IT AT
THE A.M.E. CHURCH,
WE SAW IT AT THE A.M.E. CHURCH,
THE FAMILY SURVIVORS OF THOSE
VICTIMS FORGIVING THE KILLER WHO
WAS RACIALLY MOTIVATED, AND WE
WAS RACIALLY MOTIVATED, AND
WE SEE IT IN JIMMY CARTER WHO
SEE IT IN JIMMY CARTER WHO
DEVOTED HIS POST PRESIDENCY TO
IMPROVING THE CAUSE OF THOSE
IMPROVING THE CAUSE OF
THOSE LESS FORTUNATE.
LESS FORTUNATE. BUT
SHOWING SUCH GRACE AND
BUT SHOWING SUCH GRACE AND
COURAGE AND HUMOR AND FAITH IN
THE FACE OF THIS DAUNTING AND
THE FACE OF THIS DAUNTING
AND DOOMING NEWS.
DOOMING NEWS. >> Woodruff:
AS SOMEBODY WHO
>> Woodruff: AS SOMEBODY WHO
COVERED THE CART WHITE HOUSE A
LONG TIME AGO, MICHAEL, I WAS
STRUCK BY, AS MARK SAYS, THE
STRUCK BY, AS MARK
SAYS, THE HUMOR.
HUMOR. HE SAID HE'D
GOTTEN CALLS FROM
HE SAID HE'D GOTTEN CALLS FROM
FORMER PRESIDENT BUSH AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND SAID, OF
COURSE, I HAVEN'T HEARD FROM
COURSE, I HAVEN'T HEARD
FROM THEM IN A LONG TIME.
THEM IN A LONG TIME. >>
RIGHT, WELL, WE OFTEN GET
>> RIGHT, WELL, WE OFTEN GET
EXAMPLES OF HOW TO LIVE
HEALTHFULLY, SUCCESSFULLY, A LOT
OF EMPHASIS ON THIS, BUT WE
DON'T REALLY GET EXAMPLES OF HOW
DON'T REALLY GET EXAMPLES
OF HOW WE APPROACH DEATH.
WE APPROACH DEATH. THIS
IS A REALLY GOOD EXAMPLE.
THIS IS A REALLY GOOD EXAMPLE.
NOW, IT'S NOT IMMINENT IN HIS
NOW, IT'S NOT
IMMINENT IN HIS CASE.
CASE. HE'S SEEKING TREATMENT.
HE'S SEEKING TREATMENT. HE
WANTS TO LIVE LONGER AND MAY
HE WANTS TO LIVE LONGER AND MAY
WELL LIVE LONGER, BUT THERE IS A
CALMNESS, THERE IS A GRACE AND
THERE IS A COURAGE ABOUT WHAT HE
SAID THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
SAID THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF
HOW YOU DEAL WITH THE END.
YOU DEAL WITH THE END. AND
HE ALSO DEALT WITH IT WITH
AND HE ALSO DEALT WITH IT WITH
GRATITUDE, TALKING ABOUT HOW
GRATEFUL HE WAS FOR HIS LIFE.
THAT'S A REAL MODEL FOR ALL OF
THAT'S A REAL MODEL
FOR ALL OF US.
US. >> Woodruff: IT IS.
>> Woodruff: IT IS. WE SAW
THE MEDICINE HE'S GETTING
WE SAW THE MEDICINE HE'S GETTING
IS SOMETHING THAT'S ONLY BEEN
AVAILABLE FOR THE LAST YEAR OR
AVAILABLE FOR THE
LAST YEAR OR SO.
SO. WITH WE CERTAINLY
WISH HIM WELL.
WITH WE CERTAINLY WISH HIM WELL.
MARK SHIELDS, MICHAEL GERSON,
GREAT TO SEE YOU BOTH.
GREAT TO SEE YOU
BOTH. THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. >> THANK YOU.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE: IT'S A
LOST ART THAT HAS BEEN SLOWLY
FADING FROM THE URBAN LANDSCAPE.
GLOWING NEON SIGNS THAT USED TO
WELCOME EVERYONE FROM RESTAURANT
GOERS, HOTEL GUESTS AND GAMBLERS
IN CITIES ACROSS THE WORLD, ARE
BEING REPLACED BY CHEAPER AND
BEING REPLACED BY CHEAPER
AND EASIER TO USE LIGHTS.
EASIER TO USE LIGHTS. BUT
A NEW WEBSITE TELLS THE
BUT A NEW WEBSITE TELLS THE
STORY OF THE ICONIC SIGNS OF
STORY OF THE ICONIC SIGNS
OF DOWNTOWN HONG KONG.
DOWNTOWN HONG KONG. YOU CAN
SEE A PHOTO GALLERY OF
YOU CAN SEE A PHOTO GALLERY
OF SOME OF THEIR BRILLIANT
SOME OF THEIR BRILLIANT
DISPLAYS, ON OUR HOME PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES. GWEN
IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH
AIRS LATER THIS EVENING.
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
HERE'S A PREVIEW: >>
Ifill: AN ALL POLITICS
>> Ifill: AN ALL POLITICS
ROUNDTABLE TONIGHT AS WE SORT
THROUGH TRUMP-MANIA, THE WORLD
OF SECRET EMAIL SERVERS AND LOOK
OF SECRET EMAIL SERVERS AND
LOOK A BIT MORE CLOSELY AT THE
A BIT MORE CLOSELY AT THE
CANDIDATES TAKING ADVANTAGE OF
IT ALL TO TALK ABOUT-- OF ALL
IT ALL TO TALK ABOUT--
OF ALL THINGS-- POLICY.
THINGS-- POLICY. YOU
WOULDN'T KNOW IT'S AUGUST.
YOU WOULDN'T KNOW IT'S AUGUST.
TUNE IN TONIGHT TO WASHINGTON
TUNE IN TONIGHT TO
WASHINGTON WEEK.
WEEK. JUDY?
JUDY? >> Woodruff:
ON PBS NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, OUR REPORTING
ON THE ECONOMIC CRISIS IN PUERTO
ON THE ECONOMIC CRISIS IN
PUERTO RICO CONTINUES.
RICO CONTINUES. PUERTO
RICO HAS BEGUN TO
PUERTO RICO HAS BEGUN TO
DEFAULT ON SOME OF ITS MASSIVE
DEFAULT ON SOME OF
ITS MASSIVE DEBT.
DEBT. THE FIRST SUCH
FAILURE TO PAY BY
THE FIRST SUCH FAILURE TO PAY
BY AN AMERICAN STATE SINCE THE
AN AMERICAN STATE SINCE
THE GREAT DEPRESSION.
GREAT DEPRESSION. >> I
THINK PUERTO RICO IS GOING
>> I THINK PUERTO RICO IS
GOING TO BE LIKE GREECE?
TO BE LIKE GREECE? >>
IT'S HAPPENING ALREADY.
>> IT'S HAPPENING ALREADY.
PUERTO RICO IS NOT GREECE, IT'S
PUERTO RICO IS NOT GREECE,
IT'S NOT A FOREIGN
NOT A FOREIGN >> Woodruff:
THAT'S TOMORROW
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY AS WE START A WEEKLONG
SERIES: KATRINA TEN YEARS LATER.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT. I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOODNIGHT.